 






Research

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about the search for knowledge. For other uses, see Research (disambiguation).
"Researcher" redirects here. It is not to be confused with the oceanographic research ship.


Communication


Portal · History


General Aspects




Communication theory
Information
Semiotics
Language
Logic
Sociology




Fields




Discourse analysis
Linguistics
Mass communication
Organizational communication
Pragmatics
Semiotics
Sociolinguistics




Disciplines




Public speaking
Interaction
Discourse
Culture
Argumentation
Persuasion
Research
Rhetoric
Literature
Philosophy




Categories




Outline







v
t
e









Basrelief sculpture "Research holding the torch of knowledge" (1896) by Olin Levi Warner. Library of Congress, Thomas Jefferson Building, Washington, D.C.


Research comprises "creative work undertaken on a systematic basis in order to increase the stock of knowledge, including knowledge of humans, culture and society, and the use of this stock of knowledge to devise new applications."[1] It is used to establish or confirm facts, reaffirm the results of previous work, solve new or existing problems, support theorems, or develop new theories. A research project may also be an expansion on past work in the field. Research projects can be used to develop further knowledge on a topic, or in the example of a school research project, they can be used to further a student's research prowess to prepare them for future jobs or reports. To test the validity of instruments, procedures, or experiments, research may replicate elements of prior projects or the project as a whole. The primary purposes of basic research (as opposed to applied research) are documentation, discovery, interpretation, or the research and development (R&D) of methods and systems for the advancement of human knowledge. Approaches to research depend on epistemologies, which vary considerably both within and between humanities and sciences. There are several forms of research: scientific, humanities, artistic, economic, social, business, marketing, practitioner research, life, technological,etc.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 Definitions
3 Forms of research
4 Scientific research
5 Historical research
6 Artistic research
7 Steps in conducting research
8 Research methods

8.1 Research method controversies

8.1.1 Anti-methodology




9 Problems in research

9.1 Methods of research
9.2 Linguicism
9.3 Publication
9.4 Influence of the open-access movement
9.5 Future perspectives


10 Professionalisation

10.1 In Russia


11 Publishing
12 Research funding
13 See also
14 References
15 Further reading
16 External links



Etymology[edit]




Aristotle, 384 BC – 322 BC, - one of the early figures in the development of the scientific method.[2]


The word research is derived from the Middle French "recherche", which means "to go about seeking", the term itself being derived from the Old French term "recerchier" a compound word from "re-" + "cerchier", or "sercher", meaning 'search'.[3] The earliest recorded use of the term was in 1577.[3]
Definitions[edit]
Research has been defined in a number of different ways.
A broad definition of research is given by Godwin Colibao: "In the broadest sense of the word, the definition of research includes any gathering of data, information, and facts for the advancement of knowledge."[4]
Another definition of research is given by John W. Creswell, who states that "[r]esearch is a process of steps used to collect and analyze information to increase our understanding of a topic or issue". It consists of three steps: pose a question, collect data to answer the question, and present an answer to the question.[5]
The Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary defines research in more detail as "a studious inquiry or examination; especially investigation or experimentation aimed at the discovery and interpretation of facts, revision of accepted theories or laws in the light of new facts, or practical application of such new or revised theories or laws".[3]
Forms of research[edit]
Original research redirects here. For the Wikipedia policy, see Wikipedia:No original research
Original research is research that is not exclusively based on a summary, review or synthesis of earlier publications on the subject of research. This material is of a primary source character. The purpose of the original research is to produce new knowledge, rather than to present the existing knowledge in a new form (e.g., summarized or classified).[6][7]
Original research can take a number of forms, depending on the discipline it pertains to. In experimental work, it typically involves direct or indirect observation of the researched subject(s), e.g., in the laboratory or in the field, documents the methodology, results, and conclusions of an experiment or set of experiments, or offers a novel interpretation of previous results. In analytical work, there are typically some new (for example) mathematical results produced, or a new way of approaching an existing problem. In some subjects which do not typically carry out experimentation or analysis of this kind, the originality is in the particular way existing understanding is changed or re-interpreted based on the outcome of the work of the researcher.[8]
The degree of originality of the research is among major criteria for articles to be published in academic journals and usually established by means of peer review.[9] Graduate students are commonly required to perform original research as part of a dissertation.[10]
Scientific research is a systematic way of gathering data and harnessing curiosity. This research provides scientific information and theories for the explanation of the nature and the properties of the world. It makes practical applications possible. Scientific research is funded by public authorities, by charitable organizations and by private groups, including many companies. Scientific research can be subdivided into different classifications according to their academic and application disciplines. Scientific research is a widely used criterion for judging the standing of an academic institution, but some argue that such is an inaccurate assessment of the institution, because the quality of research does not tell about the quality of teaching (these do not necessarily correlate).[11]
Research in the humanities involves different methods such as for example hermeneutics and semiotics. Humanities scholars usually do not search for the ultimate correct answer to a question, but instead, explore the issues and details that surround it. Context is always important, and context can be social, historical, political, cultural, or ethnic. An example of research in the humanities is historical research, which is embodied in historical method. Historians use primary sources and other evidence to systematically investigate a topic, and then to write histories in the form of accounts of the past. Other studies aim to merely examine the occurrence of behaviours in societies and communities, without particularly looking for reasons or motivations to explain these. These studies may be qualitative or quantitative, and can use a variety of approaches, such as queer theory or feminist theory.[12]
Artistic research, also seen as 'practice-based research', can take form when creative works are considered both the research and the object of research itself. It is the debatable body of thought which offers an alternative to purely scientific methods in research in its search for knowledge and truth.
Scientific research[edit]
Main article: Scientific method




Primary scientific research being carried out at the Microscopy Laboratory of the Idaho National Laboratory.






Scientific research equipment at MIT.


Generally, research is understood to follow a certain structural process. Though step order may vary depending on the subject matter and researcher, the following steps are usually part of most formal research, both basic and applied:

Observations and formation of the topic: Consists of the subject area of one's interest and following that subject area to conduct subject related research. The subject area should not be randomly chosen since it requires reading a vast amount of literature on the topic to determine the gap in the literature the researcher intends to narrow. A keen interest in the chosen subject area is advisable. The research will have to be justified by linking its importance to already existing knowledge about the topic.
Hypothesis: A testable prediction which designates the relationship between two or more variables.
Conceptual definition: Description of a concept by relating it to other concepts.
Operational definition: Details in regards to defining the variables and how they will be measured/assessed in the study.
Gathering of data: Consists of identifying a population and selecting samples, gathering information from and/or about these samples by using specific research instruments. The instruments used for data collection must be valid and reliable.
Analysis of data: Involves breaking down the individual pieces of data in order to draw conclusions about it.
Data Interpretation: This can be represented through tables, figures, and pictures, and then described in words.
Test, revising of hypothesis
Conclusion, reiteration if necessary

A common misconception is that a hypothesis will be proven (see, rather, null hypothesis). Generally, a hypothesis is used to make predictions that can be tested by observing the outcome of an experiment. If the outcome is inconsistent with the hypothesis, then the hypothesis is rejected (see falsifiability). However, if the outcome is consistent with the hypothesis, the experiment is said to support the hypothesis. This careful language is used because researchers recognize that alternative hypotheses may also be consistent with the observations. In this sense, a hypothesis can never be proven, but rather only supported by surviving rounds of scientific testing and, eventually, becoming widely thought of as true.
A useful hypothesis allows prediction and within the accuracy of observation of the time, the prediction will be verified. As the accuracy of observation improves with time, the hypothesis may no longer provide an accurate prediction. In this case, a new hypothesis will arise to challenge the old, and to the extent that the new hypothesis makes more accurate predictions than the old, the new will supplant it. Researchers can also use a null hypothesis, which states no relationship or difference between the independent or dependent variables.
Historical research[edit]
Main article: Historical method




German historian Leopold von Ranke (1795-1886), considered to be one of the founders of modern source-based history.


The historical method comprises the techniques and guidelines by which historians use historical sources and other evidence to research and then to write history. There are various history guidelines that are commonly used by historians in their work, under the headings of external criticism, internal criticism, and synthesis. This includes lower criticism and sensual criticism. Though items may vary depending on the subject matter and researcher, the following concepts are part of most formal historical research:[13]

Identification of origin date
Evidence of localization
Recognition of authorship
Analysis of data
Identification of integrity
Attribution of credibility

Artistic research[edit]
The controversial trend of artistic teaching becoming more academics-oriented is leading to artistic research being accepted as the primary mode of enquiry in art as in the case of other disciplines.[14] One of the characteristics of artistic research is that it must accept subjectivity as opposed to the classical scientific methods. As such, it is similar to the social sciences in using qualitative research and intersubjectivity as tools to apply measurement and critical analysis.[15]
Artistic research has been defined by the University of Dance and Circus (Dans och Cirkushögskolan, DOCH), Stockholm in the following manner - "Artistic research is to investigate and test with the purpose of gaining knowledge within and for our artistic disciplines. It is based on artistic practices, methods, and criticality. Through presented documentation, the insights gained shall be placed in a context."[16] Artistic research aims to enhance knowledge and understanding with presentation of the arts.[17] For a survey of the central problematics of today's Artistic Research, see Giaco Schiesser.[18]
According to artist Hakan Topal, in artistic research, "perhaps more so than other disciplines, intuition is utilized as a method to identify a wide range of new and unexpected productive modalities".[19] Most writers, whether of fiction or non-fiction books, also have to do research to support their creative work. This may be factual, historical, or background research. Background research could include, for example, geographical or procedural research.[20]
The Society for Artistic Research (SAR) publishes the triannual Journal for Artistic Research (JAR),[21][22] an international, online, open access, and peer-reviewed journal for the identification, publication, and dissemination of artistic research and its methodologies, from all arts disciplines and it runs the Research Catalogue (RC),[23][24][25] a searchable, documentary database of artistic research, to which anyone can contribute.
Patricia Leavy addresses eight arts-based research (ABR) genres: narrative inquiry, fiction-based research, poetry, music, dance, theatre, film, and visual art.[26]
In 2016 ELIA (European League of the Institutes of the Arts) launched The Florence Principles' on the Doctorate in the Arts.[27] The Florence Principles relating to the Salzburg Principles and the Salzburg Recommendations of EUA (European University Association) name seven points of attention to specify the Doctorate / Ph.D. in the Arts compared to a scientific doctorate / Ph.D. The Florence Principles have been endorsed and are supported also by AEC, CILECT, CUMULUS and SAR.
Steps in conducting research[edit]
Research is often conducted using the hourglass model structure of research.[28] The hourglass model starts with a broad spectrum for research, focusing in on the required information through the method of the project (like the neck of the hourglass), then expands the research in the form of discussion and results. The major steps in conducting research are:[29]

Identification of research problem
Literature review
Specifying the purpose of research
Determining specific research questions
Specification of a conceptual framework, usually a set of hypotheses[30]
Choice of a methodology (for data collection)
Data collection
Verifying data
Analyzing and interpreting the data
Reporting and evaluating research
Communicating the research findings and, possibly, recommendations

The steps generally represent the overall process; however, they should be viewed as an ever-changing iterative process rather than a fixed set of steps.[31] Most research begins with a general statement of the problem, or rather, the purpose for engaging in the study.[32] The literature review identifies flaws or holes in previous research which provides justification for the study. Often, a literature review is conducted in a given subject area before a research question is identified. A gap in the current literature, as identified by a researcher, then engenders a research question. The research question may be parallel to the hypothesis. The hypothesis is the supposition to be tested. The researcher(s) collects data to test the hypothesis. The researcher(s) then analyzes and interprets the data via a variety of statistical methods, engaging in what is known as empirical research. The results of the data analysis in rejecting or failing to reject the null hypothesis are then reported and evaluated. At the end, the researcher may discuss avenues for further research. However, some researchers advocate for the reverse approach: starting with articulating findings and discussion of them, moving "up" to identification of a research problem that emerges in the findings and literature review. The reverse approach is justified by the transactional nature of the research endeavor where research inquiry, research questions, research method, relevant research literature, and so on are not fully known until the findings have fully emerged and been interpreted.
Rudolph Rummel says, "... no researcher should accept any one or two tests as definitive. It is only when a range of tests are consistent over many kinds of data, researchers, and methods can one have confidence in the results."[33]
Plato in Meno talks about an inherent difficulty, if not a paradox, of doing research that can be paraphrased in the following way, "If you know what you're searching for, why do you search for it?! [i.e., you have already found it] If you don't know what you're searching for, what are you searching for?!"[34]
Research methods[edit]




The research room at the New York Public Library, an example of secondary research in progress.






Maurice Hilleman is credited with saving more lives than any other scientist of the 20th century.[35]


The goal of the research process is to produce new knowledge or deepen understanding of a topic or issue. This process takes three main forms (although, as previously discussed, the boundaries between them may be obscure):

Exploratory research, which helps to identify and define a problem or question.
Constructive research, which tests theories and proposes solutions to a problem or question.
Empirical research, which tests the feasibility of a solution using empirical evidence.

There are two major types of empirical research design: qualitative research and quantitative research. Researchers choose qualitative or quantitative methods according to the nature of the research topic they want to investigate and the research questions they aim to answer:

Qualitative research
This involves understanding human behavior and the reasons that govern such behavior, by asking a broad question, collecting data in the form of words, images, video etc that is analyzed, and searching for themes. This type of research aims to investigate a question without attempting to quantifiably measure variables or look to potential relationships between variables. It is viewed as more restrictive in testing hypotheses because it can be expensive and time-consuming and typically limited to a single set of research subjects.[citation needed] Qualitative research is often used as a method of exploratory research as a basis for later quantitative research hypotheses.[citation needed] Qualitative research is linked with the philosophical and theoretical stance of social constructionism.


Quantitative research
This involves systematic empirical investigation of quantitative properties and phenomena and their relationships, by asking a narrow question and collecting numerical data to analyze it utilizing statistical methods. The quantitative research designs are experimental, correlational, and survey (or descriptive).[36] Statistics derived from quantitative research can be used to establish the existence of associative or causal relationships between variables. Quantitative research is linked with the philosophical and theoretical stance of positivism.

The quantitative data collection methods rely on random sampling and structured data collection instruments that fit diverse experiences into predetermined response categories.[citation needed] These methods produce results that are easy to summarize, compare, and generalize.[citation needed] Quantitative research is concerned with testing hypotheses derived from theory and/or being able to estimate the size of a phenomenon of interest.
If the research question is about people, participants may be randomly assigned to different treatments (this is the only way that a quantitative study can be considered a true experiment).[citation needed] If this is not feasible, the researcher may collect data on participant and situational characteristics in order to statistically control for their influence on the dependent, or outcome, variable. If the intent is to generalize from the research participants to a larger population, the researcher will employ probability sampling to select participants.[37]
In either qualitative or quantitative research, the researcher(s) may collect primary or secondary data. Primary data is data collected specifically for the research, such as through interviews or questionnaires. Secondary data is data that already exists, such as census data, which can be re-used for the research. It is good ethical research practice to use secondary data wherever possible.[38]
Mixed-method research, i.e. research that includes qualitative and quantitative elements, using both primary and secondary data, is becoming more common.[39]
Big data has brought big impacts on research methods so that now many researchers do not put much effort into data collection; furthermore, methods to analyze easily available huge amounts of data have also been developed.[40]

Non-empirical research

Non-empirical (theoretical) research is an approach that involves the development of theory as opposed to using observation and experimentation. As such, non-empirical research seeks solutions to problems using existing knowledge as its source. This, however, does not mean that new ideas and innovations cannot be found within the pool of existing and established knowledge. Non-empirical research is not an absolute alternative to empirical research because they may be used together to strengthen a research approach. Neither one is less effective than the other since they have their particular purpose in science. Typically empirical research produces observations that need to be explained; then theoretical research tries to explain them, and in so doing generates empirically testable hypotheses; these hypotheses are then tested empirically, giving more observations that may need further explanation; and so on. See Scientific method.
A simple example of a non-empirical task is the prototyping of a new drug using a differentiated application of existing knowledge; another is the development of a business process in the form of a flow chart and texts where all the ingredients are from established knowledge. Much of cosmological research is theoretical in nature. Mathematics research does not rely on externally available data; rather, it seeks to prove theorems about mathematical objects.
Research method controversies[edit]
There have been many controversies about research methods stemming from the effort of philosophical positivism to distinguish science from other practices (especially religion) by its method. This promise leads to methodological hegemony and methodology wars where diverse researchers, often coming from opposing paradigms, try to impose their own methodology on the entire field or even on science practice in general as the only legitimate one.[citation needed]
Anti-methodology[edit]
According to this view, general scientific methodology does not exist and attempts to impose it on scientists are counterproductive. Each particular research project with its emerging particular inquiries requires and should produce its own way (method) of researching. Similar to art practice, the notion of methodology has to be replaced with the notion of research mastery.[41]
Problems in research[edit]
Methods of research[edit]
In many disciplines, Western methods of conducting research are predominant.[42] Researchers are overwhelmingly taught Western methods of data collection and study. The increasing participation of indigenous peoples as researchers has brought increased attention to the lacuna in culturally-sensitive methods of data collection. Non-Western methods of data collection may not be the most accurate or relevant for research on non-Western societies. For example, “Hua Oranga” was created as a criterion for psychological evaluation in Māori populations, and is based on dimensions of mental health important to the Māori people — "taha wairua (the spiritual dimension), taha hinengaro (the mental dimension), taha tinana (the physical dimension), and taha whanau (the family dimension)”.[43]
Linguicism[edit]
Periphery scholars face the challenges of exclusion and linguicism in research and academic publication. As the great majority of mainstream academic journals are written in English, multilingual periphery scholars often must translate their work in order to be accepted to elite Western-dominated journals.[44] Multilingual scholars’ influences from their native communicative styles can be assumed to be incompetence instead of difference.[45]
Publication[edit]
Publications from periphery countries rarely rise to the same elite status as those of North America and Europe primarily because of fewer material resources, rendering them less able to meet practical conventions of publishing such as paper weight and graphic quality.[45] These subdue the voices of periphery scholars and prevent their contributions to collective knowledge.
Influence of the open-access movement[edit]
The open access movement assumes that all information generally deemed useful should be free and belongs to a “public domain”, that of “humanity”.[46] This idea gained prevalence as a result of Western colonial history and ignores alternative conceptions of knowledge circulation. For instance, most indigenous communities consider that access to certain information proper to the group should be determined by relationships.[46]
There is alleged to be a double standard in the Western knowledge system. On the one hand, “digital right management” used to restrict access to personal information on social networking platforms is celebrated as a protection of privacy, while simultaneously when similar functions are utilised by cultural groups (ie indigenous communities) this is denounced as “access control” and reprehended as censorship.[46]
Future perspectives[edit]
Even though Western dominance seems to be prominent in research, some scholars, such as Simon Marginson, argue for “the need [for] a plural university world”.[47] Marginson argues that the East Asian Confucian model could take over the Western model.
This could be due to changes in funding for research both in the East and the West. Focussed on emphasizing educational achievement, East Asian cultures, mainly in China and South Korea, have encouraged the increase of funding for research expansion.[47] In contrast, in the Western academic world, notably in the United Kingdom as well as in some state governments in the United States, funding cuts for university research have occurred, which some[who?] say may lead to the future decline of Western dominance in research.
Professionalisation [edit]





The examples and perspective in this section may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (January 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


See also: Academic ranks, Academics, and Scientists
In several national and private academic systems, the professionalisation of research has resulted in formal job titles.
In Russia[edit]
In present-day Russia, the former Soviet Union and in some post-Soviet states the term researcher (Russian: Научный сотрудник, nauchny sotrudnik) is both a generic term for a person who carried out scientific research, as well as a job position within the frameworks of the USSR Academy of Sciences, Soviet universities, and in other research-oriented establishments. The term is also sometimes translated as research fellow, research associate, etc.
The following ranks are known:

Junior Researcher (Junior Research Associate)
Researcher (Research Associate)
Senior Researcher (Senior Research Associate)
Leading Researcher (Leading Research Associate)[48]
Chief Researcher (Chief Research Associate)

Publishing[edit]




Cover of the first issue of Nature, 4 November 1869.


Academic publishing is a system that is necessary in order for academic scholars to peer review the work and make it available for a wider audience. The system varies widely by field and is also always changing, if often slowly. Most academic work is published in journal article or book form. There is also a large body of research that exists in either a thesis or dissertation form. These forms of research can be found in databases explicitly for theses and dissertations. In publishing, STM publishing is an abbreviation for academic publications in science, technology, and medicine.
Most established academic fields have their own scientific journals and other outlets for publication, though many academic journals are somewhat interdisciplinary, and publish work from several distinct fields or subfields. The kinds of publications that are accepted as contributions of knowledge or research vary greatly between fields, from the print to the electronic format. A study suggests that researchers should not give great consideration to findings that are not replicated frequently.[49] It has also been suggested that all published studies should be subjected to some measure for assessing the validity or reliability of its procedures in order to prevent the publication of unproven findings.[50] Business models are different in the electronic environment. Since about the early 1990s, licensing of electronic resources, particularly journals, has been very common. Presently, a major trend, particularly with respect to scholarly journals, is open access.[51] There are two main forms of open access: open access publishing, in which the articles or the whole journal is freely available from the time of publication, and self-archiving, where the author makes a copy of their own work freely available on the web.
Research funding[edit]
Main article: Funding of science
Most funding for scientific research comes from three major sources: corporate research and development departments; private foundations, for example, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation; and government research councils such as the National Institutes of Health in the USA[52] and the Medical Research Council in the UK. These are managed primarily through universities and in some cases through military contractors. Many senior researchers (such as group leaders) spend a significant amount of their time applying for grants for research funds. These grants are necessary not only for researchers to carry out their research but also as a source of merit.
The Social Psychology Network provides a comprehensive list of U.S. Government and private foundation funding sources.
See also[edit]

European Charter for Researchers
Undergraduate research
Internet research
List of countries by research and development spending
Open research
Operations research
Participatory action research
Primary research
Psychological research methods
Research-intensive cluster
Scholarly research
Secondary research
Society for Artistic Research
Timeline of the history of scientific method

References[edit]


^ OECD (2002) Frascati Manual: proposed standard practice for surveys on research and experimental development, 6th edition. Retrieved 27 May 2012 from www.oecd.org/sti/frascatimanual.
^ "The Origins of Science". Scientific American Frontiers.
^ a b c Unattributed. ""Research" in 'Dictionary' tab". Merriam Webster (m-w.com). Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved 13 August 2011. 
^ Shuttleworth, Martyn (2008). "Definition of Research". Explorable. Explorable.com. Retrieved 14 August 2011. 
^ Creswell, J. W. (2008). Educational Research: Planning, conducting, and evaluating quantitative and qualitative research (3rd ed.). Upper Saddle River: Pearson.
^ "What is Original Research? Original research is considered a primary source.". Thomas G. Carpenter Library, University of North Florida. Archived from the original on 2011-07-09. Retrieved 9 Aug 2014. 
^ Schaum's Quick Guide to Writing Great Research Papers - Laurie Rozakis
^ Singh, Michael; Li, Bingyi (October 6, 2009). "Early career researcher originality: Engaging Richard Florida's international competition for creative workers" (PDF). Centre for Educational Research, University of Western Sydney. p. 2. Archived from the original on January 11, 2012. 
^ Callaham, Michael; Wears, Robert; Weber, Ellen L. (2002). "Journal Prestige, Publication Bias, and Other Characteristics Associated With Citation of Published Studies in Peer-Reviewed Journals". JAMA. doi:10.1001/jama.287.21.2847. 
^ Occupational Outlook Handbook, 2006-2007 edition - The United States Department of Labor
^ J. Scott Armstrong & Tad Sperry (1994). "Business School Prestige: Research versus Teaching" (PDF). Energy & Environment. 18 (2): 13–43. 
^ "James Roffee & Andrea Waling Resolving ethical challenges when researching with minority and vulnerable populations: LGBTIQ victims of violence, harassment and bullying". 
^ Garraghan, Gilbert J. (1946). A Guide to Historical Method. New York: Fordham University Press. p. 168. ISBN 0-8371-7132-6. 
^ Lesage, Dieter (Spring 2009). "Who's Afraid of Artistic Research? On measuring artistic research output" (PDF). Art&Research - A Journal of Ideas, Contexts and Methods. 2 (2). ISSN 1752-6388. Retrieved 14 August 2011. 
^ Eisner, E. W. (1981). "On the Differences between Scientific and Artistic Approaches to Qualitative Research". Educational Researcher. 10 (4): 5–9. doi:10.2307/1175121. 
^ Unattributed. "Artistic research at DOCH". Dans och Cirkushögskolan (website). Retrieved 14 August 2011. 
^ Schwab, M. (2009). Draft Proposal. Journal for Artistic Research. Bern University of the Arts.
^ Schiesser, G. (2015). What is at stake – Qu’est ce que l’enjeu? Paradoxes – Problematics – Perspectives in Artistic Research Today, in: Arts, Research, Innovation and Society. Eds. Gerald Bast, Elias G. Carayannis [= ARIS, Vol. 1]. Wien/New York: Springer 2015, pp. 197-210.
^ Topal, H. (2014) Whose Terms? A Glossary for Social Practice: RESEARCH
^ Hoffman A (2003) Research for Writers, pp 4-5. London: A&C Black Publishers Limited.
^ Swiss Science and Technology Research Council (2011), Research Funding in the Arts [accessed Feb 3, 2014]
^ Borgdorff, Henk (2012), The Conflict of the Faculties. Perspectives on Artistic Research and Academia (Chapter 11: The Case of the Journal for Artistic Research), Leiden: Leiden University Press.
^ Schwab, Michael, and Borgdorff, Henk, eds. (2014), The Exposition of Artistic Research: Publishing Art in Academia, Leiden: Leiden University Press.
^ Wilson, Nick and van Ruiten, Schelte / ELIA, eds. (2013), SHARE Handbook for Artistic Research Education, Amsterdam: Valand Academy, p. 249.
^ Hughes, Rolf: "Leap into Another Kind: International Developments in Artistic Research," in Swedish Research Council, ed. (2013), Artistic Research Then and Now: 2004–2013, Yearbook of AR&D 2013, Stockholm: Swedish Research Council.
^ Leavy, Patricia (2015). Methods Meets Art (2nd ed.). New York: Guilford. ISBN 9781462519446. 
^ http://www.elia-artschools.org/userfiles/File/customfiles/1-the-florence-principles20161124105336_20161202112511.pdf [accessed Dec 12, 2016]
^ Trochim, W.M.K, (2006). Research Methods Knowledge Base.
^ Creswell, J.W. (2008). Educational research: Planning, conducting, and evaluating quantitative and qualitative research (3rd). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. 2008 ISBN 0-13-613550-1 (pages 8-9)
^ Shields, Patricia and Rangarjan, N. 2013. A Playbook for Research Methods: Integrating Conceptual Frameworks and Project Management. [1]. Stillwater, OK: New Forums Press.
^ Gauch, Jr., H.G. (2003). Scientific method in practice. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. 2003 ISBN 0-521-81689-0 (page 3)
^ Rocco, T.S., Hatcher, T., & Creswell, J.W. (2011). The handbook of scholarly writing and publishing. San Francisco, CA: John Wiley & Sons. 2011 ISBN 978-0-470-39335-2
^ Questions About Freedom, Democide, And War
^ Plato, & Bluck, R. S. (1962). Meno. Cambridge, UK: University Press.
^ Sullivan P (2005-04-13). "Maurice R. Hilleman dies; created vaccines". Washington Post. 
^ Creswell, J. W. (2008). Educational Research: Planning, Conducting, and Evaluating Quantitative and Qualitative Research. Upper Saddle River, NJ. Pearson Education, Inc.
^ Data Collection Methods
^ Kara H (2012) Research and Evaluation for Busy Practitioners: A Time-Saving Guide, p.102. Bristol: The Policy Press.
^ Kara H (2012) Research and Evaluation for Busy Practitioners: A Time-Saving Guide, p.114. Bristol: The Policy Press.
^ Liu, Alex (2015-01-01). Structural Equation Modeling and Latent Variable Approaches. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. ISBN 9781118900772. 
^ Matusov, E., & Brobst, J. (2013). Radical experiment in dialogic pedagogy in higher education and its centaur failure: Chronotopic analysis. Hauppauge, NY: Nova Science Publishers.
^ Reverby, Susan M. (2012-04-01). "Zachary M. Schrag. Ethical Imperialism: Institutional Review Boards and the Social Sciences, 1965–2009. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. 2010. Pp. xii, 245. $45.00". The American Historical Review. 117 (2): 484–485. doi:10.1086/ahr.117.2.484-a. ISSN 0002-8762. 
^ Stewart, Lisa. "Commentary on Cultural Diversity Across the Pacific: The Dominance of Western Theories, Models, Research and Practice in Psychology". Journal of Pacific Rim Psychology. 6 (01): 27–31. doi:10.1017/prp.2012.1. 
^ Canagarajah, A. Suresh (1996-01-01). "From Critical Research Practice to Critical Research Reporting". TESOL Quarterly. 30 (2): 321–331. doi:10.2307/3588146. JSTOR 3588146. 
^ a b Canagarajah, Suresh (October 1996). ""Nondiscursive" Requirements in Academic Publishing, Material Resources of Periphery Scholars, and the Politics of Knowledge Production". Written Communication. 13 (4) – via SagePub. 
^ a b c Christen, Kimberly (2012). "Does Information Really Want to be Free? Indigenous Knowledge Systems and the Question of Openness". International Journal of Communication. 6. 
^ a b "Sun sets on Western dominance as East Asian Confucian model takes lead". 2011-02-24. Retrieved 2016-08-29. 
^ Job qualifications for Leading Researcher (Russian)
^ Heiner Evanschitzky, Carsten Baumgarth, Raymond Hubbard and J. Scott Armstrong (2006). "Replication Research in Marketing Revisited: A Note on a Disturbing Trend" (PDF).  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ J. Scott Armstrong & Peer Soelberg (1968). "On the Interpretation of Factor Analysis" (PDF). Psychological Bulletin. 70: 361–364. doi:10.1037/h0026434. 
^ J. Scott Armstrong & Robert Fildes (2006). "Monetary Incentives in Mail Surveys" (PDF). International Journal of Forecasting. 
^ "NIH Reporter". 


Further reading[edit]

Cohen, N. & Arieli, T. (2011) Field research in conflict environments: Methodological challenges and snowball sampling. Journal of Peace Research 48 (4), pp. 423–436.
Soeters, Joseph; Shields, Patricia and Rietjens, Sebastiaan. 2014. Handbook of Research Methods in Military Studies New York: Routledge.

External links[edit]



Wikiversity has learning resources about Research




Library resources about
Research





Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries





 The dictionary definition of research at Wiktionary
 Quotations related to Research at Wikiquote




Authority control



GND: 4017894-8









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Research&oldid=764122900"					
Categories: ResearchResearch methodsKnowledgeScientific methodHidden categories: Articles with Russian-language external linksCS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listPages using ISBN magic linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2012Articles with unsourced statements from August 2015All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from February 2017Articles with limited geographic scope from January 2014Articles containing Russian-language textWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote 



Languages


العربيةAragonésAsturianuAvañe'ẽBamanankanবাংলাБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиBosanskiCatalàČeštinaCorsuCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisFurlanGaeilgeGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiবিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরীBahasa Indonesiaᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitutÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡKreyòl ayisyenLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLingálaമലയാളംमराठीNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийसंस्कृतम्ShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиBasa SundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng ViệtWinarayייִדיש中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 7 February 2017, at 05:36.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.356","walltime":"0.448","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3086,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":74783,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":4214,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":7,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  367.926      1 -total"," 36.86%  135.612      1 Template:Reflist"," 23.67%   87.076      7 Template:Fix"," 22.68%   83.455      6 Template:Citation_needed"," 14.18%   52.154     10 Template:Cite_web"," 13.57%   49.945      7 Template:Delink"," 10.22%   37.615     15 Template:Category_handler","  9.01%   33.144     10 Template:Cite_journal","  6.39%   23.520      1 Template:Authority_control","  4.80%   17.651      1 Template:About"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.177","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5347688,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1237","timestamp":"20170212035114","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":523,"wgHostname":"mw1237"});});
