 






Solar sail

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

This article is about spacecraft propulsion by radiation pressure of sunlight. For spacecraft propulsion by particle and electromagnetic field pressure of the solar wind, see electric sail and magnetic sail. For The Planetary Society spacecraft, see LightSail-1.
"laser sail" redirects here. It is not to be confused with Laser (dinghy).




IKAROS spaceprobe with solar sail in flight (artist's depiction) showing a typical square sail configuration


Solar sails (also called light sails or photon sails) are a form of spacecraft propulsion using radiation pressure exerted by sunlight on large mirrors. A useful analogy may be a sailing boat; the light exerting a force on the mirrors is akin to a sail being blown by the wind. High-energy laser beams could be used as an alternative light source to exert much greater force than would be possible using sunlight, a concept known as beam sailing.
Solar sail craft offer the possibility of low-cost operations combined with long operating lifetimes. Since they have few moving parts and use no propellant, they can potentially be used numerous times for delivery of payloads.
Solar sails use a phenomenon that has a proven, measured effect on spacecraft. Solar pressure affects all spacecraft, whether in interplanetary space or in orbit around a planet or small body. A typical spacecraft going to Mars, for example, will be displaced by thousands of kilometres by solar pressure, so the effects must be accounted for in trajectory planning, which has been done since the time of the earliest interplanetary spacecraft of the 1960s. Solar pressure also affects the orientation (Aircraft attitude) of a craft, a factor that must be included in spacecraft design.[1]
The total force exerted on an 800 by 800 meter solar sail, for example, is about 5 newtons (1.1 lbf) at Earth's distance from the Sun,[2] making it a low-thrust propulsion system, similar to spacecraft propelled by electric engines, but as it uses no propellant, that force is exerted almost constantly and the collective effect over time is great enough to be considered a potential manner of propelling spacecraft.



Contents


1 History of concept
2 Physical principles

2.1 Solar radiation pressure
2.2 Sail parameters
2.3 Attitude control
2.4 Constraints


3 Applications

3.1 Inner planets
3.2 Outer planets
3.3 Oort Cloud / Sun's inner gravity focus
3.4 Satellites
3.5 Trajectory corrections
3.6 Interstellar flight
3.7 Deorbiting artificial satellites


4 Sail configurations
5 Electric solar wind sail
6 Magnetic sail
7 Sail making

7.1 Materials
7.2 Reflection and emissivity layers
7.3 Fabrication


8 Operations

8.1 Changing orbits
8.2 Swing-by maneuvers
8.3 Smart lines
8.4 Towing


9 Projects operating or completed

9.1 IKAROS 2010
9.2 Attitude (orientation) control
9.3 Sail deployment tests
9.4 Solar sail propulsion attempts
9.5 NanoSail-D 2010
9.6 LightSail-A


10 Projects in development or proposed

10.1 Sunjammer 2015
10.2 Gossamer deorbit sail
10.3 NEA Scout
10.4 Breakthrough Starshot


11 In science fiction
12 See also
13 References
14 Bibliography
15 External links



History of concept[edit]
Johannes Kepler observed that comet tails point away from the Sun and suggested that the Sun caused the effect. In a letter to Galileo in 1610, he wrote, "Provide ships or sails adapted to the heavenly breezes, and there will be some who will brave even that void." He might have had the comet tail phenomenon in mind when he wrote those words, although his publications on comet tails came several years later.[3]
James Clerk Maxwell, in 1861–64, published his theory of electromagnetic fields and radiation, which shows that light has momentum and thus can exert pressure on objects. Maxwell's equations provide the theoretical foundation for sailing with light pressure. So by 1864, the physics community and beyond knew sunlight carried momentum that would exert a pressure on objects.
Jules Verne, in From the Earth to the Moon,[4] published in 1865, wrote "there will some day appear velocities far greater than these [of the planets and the projectile], of which light or electricity will probably be the mechanical agent ... we shall one day travel to the moon, the planets, and the stars."[5] This is possibly the first published recognition that light could move ships through space.
Pyotr Lebedev was first to successfully demonstrate light pressure, which he did in 1899 with a torsional balance;[6] Ernest Nichols and Gordon Hull conducted a similar independent experiment in 1901 using a Nichols radiometer.[7]
Svante Arrhenius predicted in 1908 the possibility of solar radiation pressure distributing life spores across interstellar distances, providing one means to explain the concept of panspermia. He apparently was the first scientist to state that light could move objects between stars.[8]
Albert Einstein (1912) provided a different formalism by his recognizing the equivalence of mass and energy. He wrote the relation p = E/c relating the momentum p and the energy E of a photon, where c is the speed of light.
Konstantin Tsiolkovsky first proposed using the pressure of sunlight to propel spacecraft through space and suggested, "using tremendous mirrors of very thin sheets to utilize the pressure of sunlight to attain cosmic velocities".[9] Friedrich Zander (Tsander) published a technical paper in 1925 that included technical analysis of solar sailing. Zander wrote of "using tremendous mirrors of very thin sheets" and "using the pressure of sunlight to attain cosmic velocities".[10]
JBS Haldane speculated in 1927 about the invention of tubular spaceships that would take humanity to space and how "wings of metallic foil of a square kilometre or more in area are spread out to catch the Sun's radiation pressure".[11]
J.D. Bernal wrote in 1929, "A form of space sailing might be developed which used the repulsive effect of the Sun's rays instead of wind. A space vessel spreading its large, metallic wings, acres in extent, to the full, might be blown to the limit of Neptune's orbit. Then, to increase its speed, it would tack, close-hauled, down the gravitational field, spreading full sail again as it rushed past the Sun."[12]
The first formal technology and design effort for a solar sail began in 1976 at Jet Propulsion Laboratory for a proposed mission to rendezvous with Halley's Comet.[2]
Physical principles[edit]
Solar radiation pressure[edit]
Main article: Radiation pressure
Many people believe that spacecraft using solar sails are pushed by the Solar winds just as sailboats and sailing ships are pushed by the winds across the waters on Earth.[13] But Solar radiation exerts a pressure on the sail due to reflection and a small fraction that is absorbed.
The momentum of a photon or an entire flux is given by Einstein's relation:[14][15]

p = E/c

where p is the momentum, E is the energy (of the photon or flux), and c is the speed of light. Solar radiation pressure can be related to the irradiance (solar constant) value of 1361 W/m2 at 1 AU (Earth-Sun distance), as revised in 2011:[16]

perfect absorbance: F = 4.54 μN per square metre (4.54 μPa) in the direction of the incident beam (an inelastic collision)
perfect reflectance: F = 9.08 μN per square metre (9.08 μPa)   in the direction normal to surface (an elastic collision)

An ideal sail is flat and has 100% specular reflection. An actual sail will have an overall efficiency of about 90%, about 8.17 μN/m2,[15] due to curvature (billow), wrinkles, absorbance, re-radiation from front and back, non-specular effects, and other factors.




Force on a sail results from reflecting the photon flux


The force on a sail and the actual acceleration of the craft vary by the inverse square of distance from the Sun (unless extremely close to the Sun[17]), and by the square of the cosine of the angle between the sail force vector and the radial from the Sun, so

F = F0 cos2 θ / R2 (ideal sail)

where R is distance from the Sun in AU. An actual square sail can be modeled as:

F = F0 (0.349 + 0.662 cos 2θ − 0.011 cos 4θ) / R2

Note that the force and acceleration approach zero generally around θ = 60° rather than 90° as one might expect with an ideal sail.[18]
If some of the energy is absorbed, the absorbed energy will heat the sail, which re-radiates that energy from the front and rear surfaces, depending on the emissivity of those two surfaces.
Solar wind, the flux of charged particles blown out from the Sun, exerts a nominal dynamic pressure of about 3 to 4 nPa, three orders of magnitude less than solar radiation pressure on a reflective sail.[19]
Sail parameters[edit]
Sail loading (areal density) is an important parameter, which is the total mass divided by the sail area, expressed in g/m2. It is represented by the Greek letter σ.
A sail craft has a characteristic acceleration, ac, which it would experience at 1 AU when facing the Sun. Using the value from above of 9.08 μN per square metre of radiation pressure at 1 AU, ac is related to areal density by:

ac = 9.08(efficiency) / σ mm/s2

Assuming 90% efficiency, ac = 8.17 / σ mm/s2
The lightness number, λ, is the dimensionless ratio of maximum vehicle acceleration divided by the Sun's local gravity. Using the values at 1 AU:

λ = ac / 5.93

The lightness number is also independent of distance from the Sun because both gravity and light pressure fall off as the inverse square of the distance from the Sun. Therefore, this number defines the types of orbit maneuvers that are possible for a given vessel.
The table presents some example values. Payloads are not included. The first two are from the detailed design effort at JPL in the 1970s. The third, the lattice sailer, might represent about the best possible performance level.[2] The dimensions for square and lattice sails are edges. The dimension for heliogyro is blade tip to blade tip.


Type
  σ (g/m2)  
 ac (mm/s2) 
  λ  
Size (km)


Square sail
5.27
1.56
0.26
0.820


Heliogyro
6.39
1.29
0.22
15


Lattice sailer
0.07
117
20
0.840


Attitude control[edit]
An active attitude control system (ACS) is essential for a sail craft to achieve and maintain a desired orientation. The required sail orientation changes slowly (often less than 1 degree per day) in interplanetary space, but much more rapidly in a planetary orbit. The ACS must be capable of meeting these orientation requirements. Attitude control is achieved by a relative shift between the craft's center of pressure and its center of mass. This can be achieved with control vanes, movement of individual sails, movement of a control mass, or altering reflectivity.
Holding a constant attitude requires that the ACS maintain a net torque of zero on the craft. The total force and torque on a sail, or set of sails, is not constant along a trajectory. The force changes with solar distance and sail angle, which changes the billow in the sail and deflects some elements of the supporting structure, resulting in changes in the sail force and torque.
Sail temperature also changes with solar distance and sail angle, which changes sail dimensions. The radiant heat from the sail changes the temperature of the supporting structure. Both factors affect total force and torque.
To hold the desired attitude the ACS must compensate for all of these changes.[20]
Constraints[edit]
In Earth orbit, solar pressure and drag pressure are typically equal at an altitude of about 800 km, which means that a sail craft would have to operate above that altitude. Sail craft must operate in orbits where their turn rates are compatible with the orbits, which is generally a concern only for spinning disk configurations.
Sail operating temperatures are a function of solar distance, sail angle, reflectivity, and front and back emissivities. A sail can be used only where its temperature is kept within its material limits. Generally, a sail can be used rather close to the Sun, around 0.25 AU, or even closer if carefully designed for those conditions.[2]
Applications[edit]
Potential applications for sail craft range throughout the Solar System, from near the Sun to the comet clouds beyond Neptune. The craft can make outbound voyages to deliver loads or to take up station keeping at the destination. They can be used to haul cargo and possibly also used for human travel.[2]
Inner planets[edit]
For trips within the inner Solar System, they can deliver loads and then return to Earth for subsequent voyages, operating as an interplanetary shuttle. For Mars in particular, the craft could provide economical means of routinely supplying operations on the planet according to Jerome Wright, "The cost of launching the necessary conventional propellants from Earth are enormous for manned missions. Use of sailing ships could potentially save more than $10 billion in mission costs."[2]
Solar sail craft can approach the Sun to deliver observation payloads or to take up station keeping orbits. They can operate at 0.25 AU or closer. They can reach high orbital inclinations, including polar.
Solar sails can travel to and from all of the inner planets. Trips to Mercury and Venus are for rendezvous and orbit entry for the payload. Trips to Mars could be either for rendezvous or swing-by with release of the payload for aerodynamic braking.[2]



Outer planets[edit]
Minimum transfer times to the outer planets benefit from using an indirect transfer (solar swing-by). However, this method results in high arrival speeds. Slower transfers have lower arrival speeds.
The minimum transfer time to Jupiter for ac of 1 mm/s2 with no departure velocity relative to Earth is 2 years when using an indirect transfer (solar swing-by). The arrival speed (V∞) is close to 17 km/s. For Saturn, the minimum trip time is 3.3 years, with an arrival speed of nearly 19 km/s.[2]



Minimum times to the outer planets (ac = 1 mm/s2)

 
  Jupiter  
  Saturn  
  Uranus  
  Neptune  


Time, yr
2.0
3.3
5.8
8.5


Speed, km/s
17
19
20
20




Oort Cloud / Sun's inner gravity focus[edit]
The Sun's inner gravitational focus point, lies at minimum distance of 550 AU from the Sun, and is the point to which light from distant objects is focused by gravity as a result of it passing by the Sun. This is thus the distant point to which solar gravity will cause the region of deep space on the other side of the Sun to be focused, thus serving effectively as a very large telescope objective lens.[21][22]
It has been proposed that an inflated sail, made of beryllium, that starts at 0.05 AU from the Sun would gain an initial acceleration of 36.4 m/s2, and reach a speed of 0.00264c (about 950 km/s) in less than a day. Such proximity to the Sun could prove to be impractical in the near term due to the structural degradation of beryllium at high temperatures, diffusion of hydrogen at high temperatures as well as an electrostatic gradient, generated by the ionization of beryllium from the solar wind, posing a burst risk. A revised perihelion of 0.1 AU would reduce the aforementioned temperature and solar flux exposure.[23] Such a sail would take "Two and a half years to reach the heliopause, six and a half years to reach the Sun’s inner gravitational focus, with arrival at the inner Oort Cloud in no more than thirty years."[22] "Such a mission could perform useful astrophysical observations en route, explore gravitational focusing techniques, and image Oort Cloud objects while exploring particles and fields in that region that are of galactic rather than solar origin."
Satellites[edit]
Robert L. Forward has commented that a solar sail could be used to modify the orbit of a satellite about the Earth. In the limit, a sail could be used to "hover" a satellite above one pole of the Earth. Spacecraft fitted with solar sails could also be placed in close orbits such that they are stationary with respect to either the Sun or the Earth, a type of satellite named by Forward a "statite". This is possible because the propulsion provided by the sail offsets the gravitational attraction of the Sun. Such an orbit could be useful for studying the properties of the Sun for long durations.[citation needed] Likewise a solar sail-equipped spacecraft could also remain on station nearly above the polar solar terminator of a planet such as the Earth by tilting the sail at the appropriate angle needed to counteract the planet's gravity.[citation needed]
In his book The Case for Mars, Robert Zubrin points out that the reflected sunlight from a large statite, placed near the polar terminator of the planet Mars, could be focused on one of the Martian polar ice caps to significantly warm the planet's atmosphere. Such a statite could be made from asteroid material.
Trajectory corrections[edit]
The MESSENGER probe orbiting Mercury used light pressure on its solar panels to perform fine trajectory corrections on the way to Mercury.[24] By changing the angle of the solar panels relative to the Sun, the amount of solar radiation pressure was varied to adjust the spacecraft trajectory more delicately than possible with thrusters. Minor errors are greatly amplified by gravity assist maneuvers, so using radiation pressure to make very small corrections saved large amounts of propellant.
Interstellar flight[edit]
In the 1970s, Robert Forward proposed two beam-powered propulsion schemes using either lasers or masers to push giant sails to a significant fraction of the speed of light.[25]
In the science fiction novel Rocheworld, Forward described a light sail propelled by super lasers. As the starship neared its destination, the outer portion of the sail would detach. The outer sail would then refocus and reflect the lasers back onto a smaller, inner sail. This would provide braking thrust to stop the ship in the destination star system.
Both methods pose monumental engineering challenges. The lasers would have to operate for years continuously at gigawatt strength. Forward's solution to this requires enormous solar panel arrays to be built at or near the planet Mercury. A planet-sized mirror or fresnel lens would need to be located at several dozen astronomical units from the Sun to keep the lasers focused on the sail. The giant braking sail would have to act as a precision mirror to focus the braking beam onto the inner "deceleration" sail.
A potentially easier approach would be to use a maser to drive a "solar sail" composed of a mesh of wires with the same spacing as the wavelength of the microwaves directed at the sail, since the manipulation of microwave radiation is somewhat easier than the manipulation of visible light. The hypothetical "Starwisp" interstellar probe design[26][27] would use microwaves, rather than visible light, to push it. Masers spread out more rapidly than optical lasers owing to their longer wavelength, and so would not have as great an effective range.
Masers could also be used to power a painted solar sail, a conventional sail coated with a layer of chemicals designed to evaporate when struck by microwave radiation.[28] The momentum generated by this evaporation could significantly increase the thrust generated by solar sails, as a form of lightweight ablative laser propulsion.
To further focus the energy on a distant solar sail, Forward proposed a lens designed as a large zone plate. This would be placed at a location between the laser or maser and the spacecraft.[25]
Another more physically realistic approach would be to use the light from the Sun to accelerate.[29] The ship would first drop into an orbit making a close pass to the Sun, to maximize the solar energy input on the sail, then it would begin to accelerate away from the system using the light from the Sun. Acceleration will drop approximately as the inverse square of the distance from the Sun, and beyond some distance, the ship would no longer receive enough light to accelerate it significantly, but would maintain the final velocity attained. When nearing the target star, the ship could turn its sails toward it and begin to use the outward pressure of the destination star to decelerate. Rockets could augment the solar thrust.
Similar solar sailing launch and capture were suggested for directed panspermia to expand life in other solar system. Velocities of 0.05% the speed of light could be obtained by solar sails carrying 10 kg payloads, using thin solar sail vehicles with effective areal densities of 0.1 g/m2 with thin sails of 0.1 µm thickness and sizes on the order of one square kilometer. Alternatively, swarms of 1 mm capsules could be launched on solar sails with radii of 42 cm, each carrying 10,000 capsules of a hundred million extremophile microorganisms to seed life in diverse target environments.[30][31]
Deorbiting artificial satellites[edit]
Small solar sails have been proposed to accelerate the deorbiting of small artificial satellites from Earth orbits. Satellites in low Earth orbit can use a combination of solar pressure on the sail and increased atmospheric drag to accelerate satellite reentry.[32] A de-orbit sail developed at Cranfield University is part of the UK satellite TechDemoSat-1, launched in 2014, and is expected to be deployed at the end of the satellite's five-year useful life. The sail's purpose is to bring the satellite out of orbit over a period of about 25 years.[33] In July 2015 British 3U CubeSat called DeorbitSail was launched into space with the purpose of testing 16 m2 deorbit structure,[34] but eventually it failed to deploy it.[35] There is also a student 2U CubeSat mission called PW-Sat2 planned to launch in 2017 that will test 4 m2 deorbit sail.[36]
Sail configurations[edit]




NASA illustration of the unlit side of a half-kilometre solar sail, showing the struts stretching the sail.






An artist's depiction of a Cosmos 1-type spaceship in orbit


IKAROS, launched in 2010, was the first practical solar sail vehicle. As of 2015, it was still under thrust, proving the practicality of a solar sail for long-duration missions.[37] It is spin-deployed, with tip-masses in the corners of its square sail. The sail is made of thin polyimide film, coated with evaporated aluminium. It steers with electrically-controlled liquid crystal panels. The sail slowly spins, and these panels turn on and off to control the attitude of the vehicle. When on, they diffuse light, reducing the momentum transfer to that part of the sail. When off, the sail reflects more light, transferring more momentum. In that way, they turn the sail.[38] Thin-film solar cells are also integrated into the sail, powering the spacecraft. The design is very reliable, because spin deployment, which is preferable for large sails, simplified the mechanisms to unfold the sail and the LCD panels have no moving parts.
Parachutes have very low mass, but a parachute is not a workable configuration for a solar sail. Analysis shows that a parachute configuration would collapse from the forces exerted by shroud lines, since radiation pressure does not behave like aerodynamic pressure, and would not act to keep the parachute open.[39]
Eric Drexler[40] proposed very high thrust-to-mass solar sails, and made prototypes of the sail material. His sail would use panels of thin aluminium film (30 to 100 nanometres thick) supported by a tensile structure. The sail would rotate and would have to be continually under thrust. He made and handled samples of the film in the laboratory, but the material was too delicate to survive folding, launch, and deployment. The design planned to rely on space-based production of the film panels, joining them to a deploy-able tension structure. Sails in this class would offer high area per unit mass and hence accelerations up to "fifty times higher" than designs based on deploy-able plastic films.[40]
The highest thrust-to-mass designs for ground-assembled deploy-able structures are square sails with the masts and guy lines on the dark side of the sail. Usually there are four masts that spread the corners of the sail, and a mast in the center to hold guy-wires. One of the largest advantages is that there are no hot spots in the rigging from wrinkling or bagging, and the sail protects the structure from the Sun. This form can, therefore, go close to the Sun for maximum thrust. Most designs steer with small moving sails on the ends of the spars.[41]



In the 1970s JPL studied many rotating blade and ring sails for a mission to rendezvous with Halley's Comet. The intention was to stiffen the structures using angular momentum, eliminating the need for struts, and saving mass. In all cases, surprisingly large amounts of tensile strength were needed to cope with dynamic loads. Weaker sails would ripple or oscillate when the sail's attitude changed, and the oscillations would add and cause structural failure. The difference in the thrust-to-mass ratio between practical designs was almost nil, and the static designs were easier to control.[41]
JPL's reference design was called the "heliogyro". It had plastic-film blades deployed from rollers and held out by centrifugal forces as it rotated. The spacecraft's attitude and direction were to be completely controlled by changing the angle of the blades in various ways, similar to the cyclic and collective pitch of a helicopter. Although the design had no mass advantage over a square sail, it remained attractive because the method of deploying the sail was simpler than a strut-based design.[41]
Heliogyro design is similar to the blades on a helicopter. The design is faster to manufacture due to lightweight centrifugal stiffening of sails. Also, they are highly efficient in cost and velocity because the blades are lightweight and long. Unlike the square and spinning disk designs, heliogyro is easier to deploy because the blades are compacted on a reel. The blades roll out when they are deploying after the ejection from the spacecraft. As the heliogyro travels through space the system spins around because of the centrifugal acceleration. Finally, payloads for the space flights are placed in the center of gravity to even out the distribution of weight to ensure stable flight.[41]
JPL also investigated "ring sails" (Spinning Disk Sail in the above diagram), panels attached to the edge of a rotating spacecraft. The panels would have slight gaps, about one to five percent of the total area. Lines would connect the edge of one sail to the other. Masses in the middles of these lines would pull the sails taut against the coning caused by the radiation pressure. JPL researchers said that this might be an attractive sail design for large manned structures. The inner ring, in particular, might be made to have artificial gravity roughly equal to the gravity on the surface of Mars.[41]
A solar sail can serve a dual function as a high-gain antenna.[42] Designs differ, but most modify the metalization pattern to create a holographic monochromatic lens or mirror in the radio frequencies of interest, including visible light.[42]
Electric solar wind sail[edit]
Main article: Electric sail
Pekka Janhunen from FMI has invented a type of solar sail called the electric solar wind sail.[43] Mechanically it has little in common with the traditional solar sail design. The sails are replaced with straightened conducting tethers (wires) placed radially around the host ship. The wires are electrically charged to create an electric field around the wires. The electric field extends a few tens of metres into the plasma of the surrounding solar wind. The solar electrons are reflected by the electric field (like the photons on a traditional solar sail). The radius of the sail is from the electric field rather than the actual wire itself, making the sail lighter. The craft can also be steered by regulating the electric charge of the wires. A practical electric sail would have 50–100 straightened wires with a length of about 20 km each.[citation needed]
Electric solar wind sails can adjust their electrostatic fields and sail attitudes.
Magnetic sail[edit]
Main article: Magnetic sail
A magnetic sail would also employ the solar wind. However, the magnetic field deflects the electrically charged particles in the wind. It uses wire loops, and runs a static current through them instead of applying a static voltage.[44]
All these designs maneuver, though the mechanisms are different.
Magnetic sails bend the path of the charged protons that are in the solar wind. By changing the sails' attitudes, and the size of the magnetic fields, they can change the amount and direction of the thrust.
Sail making[edit]
Materials[edit]
The most common material in current designs is a thin layer of aluminum coating on a polymer (plastic) sheet, such as aluminized 2 µm Kapton film. The polymer provides mechanical support as well as flexibility, while the thin metal layer provides the reflectivity. Such material resists the heat of a pass close to the Sun and still remains reasonably strong. The aluminum reflecting film is on the Sun side. The sails of Cosmos 1 were made of aluminized PET film (Mylar).
Drexler developed a concept for a sail in which the polymer was removed. The material developed for the Drexler solar sail was a thin aluminium film with a baseline thickness of 0.1 µm, to be fabricated by vapor deposition in a space-based system. Drexler used a similar process to prepare films on the ground. As anticipated, these films demonstrated adequate strength and robustness for handling in the laboratory and for use in space, but not for folding, launch, and deployment.
Research by Geoffrey Landis in 1998–1999, funded by the NASA Institute for Advanced Concepts, showed that various materials such as alumina for laser lightsails and carbon fiber for microwave pushed lightsails were superior sail materials to the previously standard aluminium or Kapton films.[45]
In 2000, Energy Science Laboratories developed a new carbon fiber material that might be useful for solar sails.[46][47] The material is over 200 times thicker than conventional solar sail designs, but it is so porous that it has the same mass. The rigidity and durability of this material could make solar sails that are significantly sturdier than plastic films. The material could self-deploy and should withstand higher temperatures.
There has been some theoretical speculation about using molecular manufacturing techniques to create advanced, strong, hyper-light sail material, based on nanotube mesh weaves, where the weave "spaces" are less than half the wavelength of light impinging on the sail. While such materials have so far only been produced in laboratory conditions, and the means for manufacturing such material on an industrial scale are not yet available, such materials could mass less than 0.1 g/m2,[48] making them lighter than any current sail material by a factor of at least 30. For comparison, 5 micrometre thick Mylar sail material mass 7 g/m2, aluminized Kapton films have a mass as much as 12 g/m2,[41] and Energy Science Laboratories' new carbon fiber material masses 3 g/m2.[46]
The least dense metal is lithium, about 5 times less dense than aluminium. Fresh, unoxidized surfaces are reflective. At a thickness of 20 nm, lithium has an area density of 0.011 g/m2. A high-performance sail could be made of lithium alone at 20 nm (no emission layer). It would have to be fabricated in space and not used to approach the Sun. In the limit, a sail craft might be constructed with a total areal density of around 0.02 g/m2, giving it a lightness number of 67 and ac of about 400 mm/s2. Magnesium and beryllium are also potential materials for high-performance sails. These 3 metals can be alloyed with each other and with aluminium.[2]
Reflection and emissivity layers[edit]
Aluminium is the common choice for the reflection layer. It typically has a thickness of at least 20 nm, with a reflectivity of 0.88 to 0.90. Chromium is a good choice for the emission layer on the face away from the Sun. It can readily provide emissivity values of 0.63 to 0.73 for thicknesses from 5 to 20 nm on plastic film. Usable emissivity values are empirical because thin-film effects dominate; bulk emissivity values do not hold up in these cases because material thickness is much thinner than the emitted wavelengths.[49]
Fabrication[edit]
Sails are fabricated on Earth on long tables where ribbons are unrolled and joined to create the sails. Sail material needed to have as little weight as possible because it would require the use of the shuttle to carry the craft into orbit. Thus, these sails are packed, launched, and unfurled in space.[50]
In the future, fabrication could take place in orbit inside large frames that support the sail. This would result in lower mass sails and elimination of the risk of deployment failure.
Operations[edit]




A solar sail can spiral inward or outward by setting the sail angle


Changing orbits[edit]
Sailing operations are simplest in interplanetary orbits, where attitude changes are done at low rates. For outward bound trajectories, the sail force vector is oriented forward of the Sun line, which increases orbital energy and angular momentum, resulting in the craft moving farther from the Sun. For inward trajectories, the sail force vector is oriented behind the Sun line, which decreases orbital energy and angular momentum, resulting in the craft moving in toward the Sun. It is worth noting that only the Sun's gravity pulls the craft toward the Sun—there is no analog to a sailboat's tacking to windward. To change orbital inclination, the force vector is turned out of the plane of the velocity vector.
In orbits around planets or other bodies, the sail is oriented so that its force vector has a component along the velocity vector, either in the direction of motion for an outward spiral, or against the direction of motion for an inward spiral.
Trajectory optimizations can often require intervals of reduced or zero thrust. This can be achieved by rolling the craft around the Sun line with the sail set at an appropriate angle to reduce or remove the thrust.[51]
Swing-by maneuvers[edit]
A close solar passage can be used to increase a craft's energy. The increased radiation pressure combines with the efficacy of being deep in the Sun's gravity well to substantially increase the energy for runs to the outer Solar System. The optimal approach to the Sun is done by increasing the orbital eccentricity while keeping the energy level as high as practical. The minimum approach distance is a function of sail angle, thermal properties of the sail and other structure, load effects on structure, and sail optical characteristics (reflectivity and emissivity). A close passage can result in substantial optical degradation. Required turn rates can increase substantially for a close passage. A sail craft arriving at a star can use a close passage to reduce energy, which also applies to a sail craft on a return trip from the outer Solar System.
A lunar swing-by can have important benefits for trajectories leaving from or arriving at Earth. This can reduce trip times, especially in cases where the sail is heavily loaded. A swing-by can also be used to obtain favorable departure or arrival directions relative to Earth.
A planetary swing-by could also be employed similar to what is done with coasting spacecraft, but good alignments might not exist due to the requirements for overall optimization of the trajectory.[52]
Smart lines[edit]
A smart line could be a critical element of sailing operations. As with maritime ships, lines are essential for a wide range of uses. One difference is that some lines may be very long and need to be self-guiding. The lines could extend from and retract into the sail craft.
A maneuverable grappling device can be used at the end of a line to place or pick up payload containers, to secure a ship to a structure such as a station, to pick up samples from an asteroid or comet, or to engage in towing. The maneuvering unit is like a small spacecraft, with many of the same sensors and control systems. It could draw power from and communicate with the sail craft through the line. These operations could be done autonomously.
Lines a few hundred kilometers long may be used to move a ship from a space station to an orbit farther out where it could begin sailing.[53]
Towing[edit]
Smart lines can enable towing operations by being able to attach to or release objects at the remote end of the line. Attached objects might be pulled in to the body of the sailer or remain at the end of the deployed line. Objects to be towed may have attachment points that allow multiple sail craft to engage in the towing. Towing operations can include deflecting large bodies that pose a hazard to Earth, bringing natural bodies to Earth or other sites for resource recovery, and transporting disabled spacecraft or other structures.
To tow or deflect a large body, poles can be inserted on the spin axis of the body. Sail craft can attach to the embedded poles using smart lines. Slip rings enable the craft to tow without the lines getting wrapped up as a result of rotation of the body.[51][54]
Projects operating or completed[edit]
IKAROS 2010[edit]
Main article: IKAROS




The model of IKAROS at the 61st International Astronautical Congress in 2010


On 21 May 2010, Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) launched the world's first interplanetary solar sail spacecraft "IKAROS" (Interplanetary Kite-craft Accelerated by Radiation Of the Sun) to Venus.[55]
JAXA successfully tested IKAROS in 2010. The goal was to deploy and control the sail and, for the first time, to determine the minute orbit perturbations caused by light pressure. Orbit determination was done by the nearby AKATSUKI probe from which IKAROS detached after both had been brought into a transfer orbit to Venus. The total effect over the six month' flight was 100 m/s.[56]
Until 2010, no solar sails had been successfully used in space as primary propulsion systems. On 21 May 2010, the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) launched the IKAROS (Interplanetary Kite-craft Accelerated by Radiation Of the Sun) spacecraft, which deployed a 200 m2 polyimide experimental solar sail on June 10.[57][58][59] In July, the next phase for the demonstration of acceleration by radiation began. On 9 July 2010, it was verified that IKAROS collected radiation from the Sun and began photon acceleration by the orbit determination of IKAROS by range-and-range-rate (RARR) that is newly calculated in addition to the data of the relativization accelerating speed of IKAROS between IKAROS and the Earth that has been taken since before the Doppler effect was utilized.[60] The data showed that IKAROS appears to have been solar-sailing since 3 June when it deployed the sail.
IKAROS has a diagonal spinning square sail 14×14 m (196 m2) made of a 7.5-micrometre (0.0075 mm) thick sheet of polyimide. The polyimide sheet had a mass of about 10 grams per square metre. A thin-film solar array is embedded in the sail. Eight LCD panels are embedded in the sail, whose reflectance can be adjusted for attitude control.[61][62] IKAROS spent six months traveling to Venus, and then began a three-year journey to the far side of the Sun.[63]
Attitude (orientation) control[edit]
Both the Mariner 10 mission, which flew by the planets Mercury and Venus, and the MESSENGER mission to Mercury demonstrated the use of solar pressure as a method of attitude control in order to conserve attitude-control propellant.
Hayabusa also used solar pressure on its solar paddles as a method of attitude control to compensate for broken reaction wheels and chemical thruster.
MTSAT-1R (Multi-Functional Transport Satellite)'s solar sail counteracts the torque produced by sunlight pressure on the solar array. The trim tab on the solar array makes small adjustments to the torque balance.
Sail deployment tests[edit]
NASA has successfully tested deployment technologies on small scale sails in vacuum chambers.[64]
On February 4, 1993, the Znamya 2, a 20-meter wide aluminized-mylar reflector, was successfully deployed from the Russian Mir space station. Although the deployment succeeded, propulsion was not demonstrated. A second test, Znamya 2.5, failed to deploy properly.
In 1999, a full-scale deployment of a solar sail was tested on the ground at DLR/ESA in Cologne.[65]
On August 9, 2004, the Japanese ISAS successfully deployed two prototype solar sails from a sounding rocket. A clover-shaped sail was deployed at 122 km altitude and a fan-shaped sail was deployed at 169 km altitude. Both sails used 7.5-micrometer film. The experiment purely tested the deployment mechanisms, not propulsion.[66]
Solar sail propulsion attempts[edit]




A photo of the experimental solar sail, NanoSail-D.


A joint private project between Planetary Society, Cosmos Studios and Russian Academy of Science made two sail testing attempts: in 2001 a suborbital prototype test failed because of rocket failure; and in June 21, 2005, Cosmos 1 launched from a submarine in the Barents Sea, but the Volna rocket failed, and the spacecraft failed to reach orbit. They intended to use the sail to gradually raise the spacecraft to a higher Earth orbit over a mission duration of one month. The launch attempt sparked public interest according to Louis Friedman, "I saw a nice demonstration of public interest in human spaceflight...At the kiosk on one of the streets I noticed a newspaper with an article about our launch...and was delighted to see the best picture capturing the vision of solar sail flight"[67] Despite the failed launch attempt of Cosmos 1, The Planetary Society received applause for their efforts from the space community and sparked a rekindled interest in solar sail technology.
A 15-meter-diameter solar sail (SSP, solar sail sub payload, soraseiru sabupeiro-do) was launched together with ASTRO-F on a M-V rocket on February 21, 2006, and made it to orbit. It deployed from the stage, but opened incompletely.[68]
NanoSail-D 2010[edit]
Main article: NanoSail-D2
A team from the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center (Marshall), along with a team from the NASA Ames Research Center, developed a solar sail mission called NanoSail-D, which was lost in a launch failure aboard a Falcon 1 rocket on 3 August 2008.[69][70] The second backup version, NanoSail-D2, also sometimes called simply NanoSail-D,[71] was launched with FASTSAT on a Minotaur IV on November 19, 2010, becoming NASA's first solar sail deployed in low earth orbit. The objectives of the mission were to test sail deployment technologies, and to gather data about the use of solar sails as a simple, "passive" means of de-orbiting dead satellites and space debris.[72] The NanoSail-D structure was made of aluminium and plastic, with the spacecraft massing less than 10 pounds (4.5 kg). The sail has about 100 square feet (9.3 m2) of light-catching surface. After some initial problems with deployment, the solar sail was deployed and over the course of its 240-day mission reportedly produced a "wealth of data" concerning the use of solar sails as passive deorbit devices.[73]
NASA launched the second NanoSail-D unit stowed inside the FASTSAT satellite on the Minotaur IV on November 19, 2010. The ejection date from the FASTSAT microsatellite was planned for December 6, 2010, but deployment only occurred on January 20, 2011.[74]
LightSail-A[edit]
Main article: LightSail-1
On Carl Sagan's 75th birthday (November 9, 2009) the Planetary Society announced plans[75] to make three further attempts, dubbed LightSail-1, -2, and -3.[76] The new design will use a 32 m2 Mylar sail, deployed in four triangular segments like NanoSail-D.[76] The launch configuration is a 3U CubeSat format, and as of 2015, it is scheduled as a secondary payload for a 2016 launch on the first SpaceX Falcon Heavy launch.[77] The Planetary Society of the United States initiated a short test of an artificial satellite "LightSail-A" that launched on 20 May 2015.[78] The purpose of the test is to allow a full checkout of the satellite's systems in advance of the main 2016 mission, LightSail-1.
Projects in development or proposed[edit]
Despite the losses of Cosmos 1 and NanoSail-D (which were due to failure of their launchers), scientists and engineers around the world remain encouraged and continue to work on solar sails. While most direct applications created so far intend to use the sails as inexpensive modes of cargo transport, some scientists are investigating the possibility of using solar sails as a means of transporting humans. This goal is strongly related to the management of very large (i.e. well above 1 km2) surfaces in space and the sail making advancements. Manned space flight utilizing solar sails is still in the development state of infancy.
Sunjammer 2015[edit]
Main article: Sunjammer (spacecraft)
A technology demonstration sail craft, dubbed Sunjammer, was in development with the intent to prove the viability and value of sailing technology.[79] Sunjammer had a square sail, 124 feet (38 meters) wide on each side (total area 13,000 sq ft or 1,208 sq m). It would have traveled from the Sun-Earth L1 Lagrangian point 900,000 miles from Earth (1.5 million km) to a distance of 1,864,114 miles (3 million kilometers).[80] The demonstration was expected to launch on a Falcon 9 in January 2015.[81] It would have been a secondary payload, released after the placement of the DSCOVR climate satellite at the L1 point.[81] Citing a lack of confidence in its contractor's ability to deliver, the mission was cancelled in October 2014.[82]
Gossamer deorbit sail[edit]
As of December 2013[update], the European Space Agency (ESA) has a proposed deorbit sail, named "Gossamer", that would be intended to be used to accelerate the deorbiting of small (less than 700 kilograms (1,500 lb)) artificial satellites from low-Earth orbits. The launch mass is 2 kilograms (4.4 lb) with a launch volume of only 15×15×25 centimetres (0.49×0.49×0.82 ft). Once deployed, the sail would expand to 5 by 5 metres (16 ft × 16 ft) and would use a combination of solar pressure on the sail and increased atmospheric drag to accelerate satellite reentry.[32]
NEA Scout[edit]




NEA Scout concept: a controllable CubeSat solar sail spacecraft


Main article: Near-Earth Asteroid Scout
The Near-Earth Asteroid Scout (NEA Scout) is a mission being jointly developed by NASA's Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), consisting of a controllable low-cost CubeSat solar sail spacecraft capable of encountering near-Earth asteroids (NEA).[83] Four 7 m booms would deploy, unfurling the 83 m2 aluminized polyimide solar sail.[84][85][86] In 2015, NASA announced it had selected NEA Scout to launch as one of several secondary payloads aboard EM-1, the first flight of the agency's heavy-lift SLS launch vehicle.[87]
Breakthrough Starshot[edit]
The well-funded Breakthrough Starshot project announced in April 12, 2016, aims to develop a fleet of 1000 light sail nanocraft carrying miniature cameras, propelled by ground-based lasers and send them to Alpha Centauri at 20% the speed of light.[88][89][90] The trip would take 20 years.
In science fiction[edit]
The earliest reference to solar sailing was in Jules Verne's 1865 novel From the Earth to the Moon,[4] only a year after Maxwell's equations were published, in which he wrote "... light or electricity will probably be the mechanical agent... [by which] we shall one day travel to the moon, the planets, and the stars.[5][91] The next known publication came more than 20 years later when Georges Le Faure and Henri De Graffigny published a four-volume science fiction novel in 1889, The Extraordinary Adventures of a Russian Scientist, which included a spacecraft propelled by solar pressure.[91] In 1913, B. Krasnogorskii published On the Waves of the Ether. In his story backed by technical calculations, a small, bullet-shaped capsule is surrounded by a circular mirror 35 meters in diameter. It travels through space by means of solar pressure on the mirror.[91]
One of the earliest American stories about light sails is "The Lady Who Sailed the Soul" by Cordwainer Smith, which was published in 1960. In it, a tragedy results from the slowness of interstellar travel by this method. Another example is the 1962 story "Gateway to Strangeness" (also known as "Sail 25") by Jack Vance, in which the outward direction of propulsion poses a life-threatening dilemma. Also in early 20th century literature, Pierre Boulle's Planet of the Apes novel starts with a couple floating in space on a ship propelled and maneuvered by light sails.
Both Arthur C. Clarke and Poul Anderson, independently published distinct stories titled "Sunjammer" in March 1964. Clarke's, published in the March 1964 issue of Boys' Life, depicted a "yacht race" between solar sail spacecraft; Anderson, in the April 1964 issue of Analog Science Fiction / Science Fact, depicts a maintenance crew, servicing space-freighters powered by light sails.
Interstellar travel by using light sails was used in Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle's 1974 The Mote in God's Eye, in which a sail is used as a brake and a weapon. In "The Flight of the Dragonfly", Robert Forward (who also proposed the microwave-pushed Starwisp design) described an interstellar journey using a light driven propulsion system, wherein a part of the sail was broken off and used as a reflector to slow the main spacecraft as it approached its destination. Forward's ideas were developed further in Buzz Aldrin and John Barnes 1996 science fiction novel "Encounter with Tiber", where the alien race 'the tiberians' use a solar sail powered first by a close flybys with Alpha Centauri A and B followed by laser boosting to travel to Earth some 9000 years ago. Their spaceship decelerate by detaching part of the light sail as well as using magnetic braking in the solar wind. Charles Stross's 2005 novel Accelerando.[92] also developed interstellar travel by sail.
In visual media, in the 1982 film Tron, in the computer simulation, a "Solar Sailer" was a craft with butterfly-like sails which moved along focused beams of light. The 1983 episode "Enlightenment" of Doctor Who featured sailing ships in space that used solar wind to fly. In the episode "Explorers" of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine that aired in 1995, a reconstructed, "ancient" Bajoran "light ship" was featured. It was designed to use solar wind to fly out of a Solar System with no engine. In the film Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones one is used by Count Dooku to propel himself across space. A solar sail was also used in James Cameron's Avatar. In the Disney film Treasure Planet, solar sails are used literally as sails for interstellar travel as well as serving for the photovoltaic gathering of energy for the jet propulsion of a steampunk-styled masted sailing ship capable of traveling through space.
See also[edit]


Spaceflight portal



LightSail-1
Optical lift
Poynting–Robertson effect
Sailcraft
Yarkovsky effect

References[edit]


^ Georgevic, R. M. (1973) "The Solar Radiation Pressure Forces and Torques Model", The Journal of the Astronautical Sciences, Vol. 27, No. 1, Jan–Feb. First known publication describing how solar radiation pressure creates forces and torques that affect spacecraft.
^ a b c d e f g h i Jerome Wright (1992), Space Sailing, Gordon and Breach Science Publishers 
^ Johannes Kepler (1604) Ad vitellionem parali pomena, Frankfort; (1619) De cometis liballi tres , Augsburg
^ a b Jules Verne (1865) De la Terre à la Lune (From the Earth to the Moon)
^ a b Chris Impey, Beyond: Our Future in Space, W. W. Norton & Company (2015)
^ P. Lebedev, 1901, "Untersuchungen über die Druckkräfte des Lichtes", Annalen der Physik, 1901
^ Lee, Dillon (2008). "A Celebration of the Legacy of Physics at Dartmouth". Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science. Dartmouth College. Retrieved 2009-06-11. 
^ Svante Arrhenius (1908) Worlds in the Making
^ Urbanczyk, Mgr., "Solar Sails-A Realistic Propulsion for Space Craft", Translation Branch Redstone Scientific Information Center Research and Development Directorate U.S. Army Missile Command Redstone Arsenal, Alabama, 1965.
^ Friedrich Zander's 1925 paper, "Problems of flight by jet propulsion: interplanetary flights", was translated by NASA. See NASA Technical Translation F-147 (1964)
^ JBS Haldane, The Last Judgement, New York and London, Harper & Brothers, 1927.
^ J. D. Bernal (1929) The World, the Flesh & the Devil: An Enquiry into the Future of the Three Enemies of the Rational Soul
^ "Setting Sail for the Stars". NASA. 28 June 2000. Retrieved 8 April 2016. 
^ "Relativistic Momentum". Hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu. Retrieved 2015-02-02. 
^ a b Wright, Appendix A
^ Kopp, G.; Lean, J. L. (2011). "A new, lower value of total solar irradiance: Evidence and climate significance". Geophysical Research Letters 38. doi:10.1029/2010GL0457770. 
^ McInnes, C. R. and Brown, J. C. (1989) Solar Sail Dynamics with an Extended Source of Radiation Pressure, International Astronautical Federation, IAF-89-350, October.
^ Wright, Appendix B.
^ http://www.swpc.noaa.gov/SWN/index.html[dead link] Archived November 27, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Wright, ibid., Ch 6 and Appendix B.
^ Eshleman, Von R., "Gravitational lens of the Sun: its potential for observations and communications over interstellar distances," Science, Vol. 205, No. 4411 (1979) pp. 1133-1135.
^ a b Maccone, Claudio. "The Sun as a Gravitational Lens : A Target for Space Missions A Target for Space Missions Reaching 550 AU to 1000 AU" (PDF). Retrieved 29 October 2014. [dead link]
^ Paul Gilster (2008-11-12). "An Inflatable Sail to the Oort Cloud". Centauri-dreams.org. Retrieved 2015-02-02. 
^ "MESSENGER Sails on Sun's Fire for Second Flyby of Mercury". 2008-09-05. On September 4, the MESSENGER team announced that it would not need to implement a scheduled maneuver to adjust the probe's trajectory. This is the fourth time this year that such a maneuver has been called off. The reason? A recently implemented navigational technique that makes use of solar-radiation pressure (SRP) to guide the probe has been extremely successful at maintaining MESSENGER on a trajectory that will carry it over the cratered surface of Mercury for a second time on October 6. [dead link]
^ a b Forward, R.L. (1984). "Roundtrip Interstellar Travel Using Laser-Pushed Lightsails". J Spacecraft. 21 (2): 187–195. Bibcode:1984JSpRo..21..187F. doi:10.2514/3.8632. 
^ Forward, Robert L., "Starwisp: An Ultralight Interstellar Probe,” J. Spacecraft and Rockets, Vol. 22, May–June 1985, pp. 345-350.
^ Landis, Geoffrey A., "Microwave Pushed Interstellar Sail: Starwisp Revisited," paper AIAA-2000-3337, 36th Joint Propulsion Conference, Huntsville AL, July 17–19, 2000.
^ "Earth To Mars in a Month With Painted Solar Sail". SPACE.com. 2005-02-11. Retrieved 2011-01-18. 
^ "Solar Sail Starships:Clipper Ships of the Galaxy," chapter 6, Eugene F. Mallove and Gregory L. Matloff, The Starflight Handbook: A Pioneer's Guide to Interstellar Travel, pp. 89-106, John Wiley & Sons, 1989. ISBN 978-0471619123
^ Meot-Ner (Mautner), Michael N.; Matloff, Gregory L. (1979). "Directed panspermia: A technical and ethical evaluation of seeding nearby solar systems" (PDF). Journal of the British Interplanetary Society. 32: 419–423. Bibcode:1979JBIS...32..419M. [dead link]
^ Mautner, Michael N. (1995). "Directed panspermia. 2. Technological advances toward seeding other solar systems, and the foundations of panbiotic ethics". Journal of the British Interplanetary Society. 48: 435–440. 
^ a b Messier, Doug (2013-12-26). "ESA Developing Solar Sail to Safely Deorbit Satellites". Parabolic Arc. Retrieved 2013-12-28. 
^ "22,295,864 amazing things you need to know about the UK’s newest satellite". Innovate UK.
^ "Mission". www.surrey.ac.uk. Retrieved 2016-01-30. 
^ "DeorbitSail Update and Initial Camera Image". AMSAT-UK. Retrieved 2016-01-30. 
^ "PW-Sat2 gets 180 000 € to fund the launch". PW-Sat2: Polish student satellite project. Retrieved 2016-01-30. 
^ "Small Solar Power Sail Demonstrator machine (小型ソーラー電力セイル実証機)" (PDF). JAXA. Retrieved 24 March 2014. 
^ JAXA. "Small Solar Power Sail Demonstrator 'IKAROS' Successful Attitude Control by Liquid Crystal Device". JAXA. Retrieved 24 March 2014. 
^ Wright, ibid., p. 71, last paragraph
^ a b Drexler, K. E. (1977). "Design of a High Performance Solar Sail System, MS Thesis," (PDF). Dept. of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Massachusetts Institute of Techniology, Boston. [dead link]
^ a b c d e f "Design & Construction". NASA JPL. Archived from the original on 2005-03-11. 
^ a b Khayatian, Rahmatsamii, Porgorzelski, UCLA and JPL. "An Antenna Concept Integrated with Future Solar Sails" (PDF).  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)[dead link]
^ NASA. "Solar Sails Could Send Spacecraft 'Sailing' Through Space". 
^ http://www.niac.usra.edu/files/library/meetings/fellows/nov99/320Zubrin.pdf
^ Geoffrey A. Landis, Ohio Aerospace Institute (1999). "Advanced Solar- and Laser-pushed Lightsail Concepts" (PDF). 
^ a b SPACE.com Exclusive: Breakthrough In Solar Sail Technology Archived January 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. (DEAD LINK!)
^ (NASA SBIR page) retrieved 25 Dec, 2015
^ "Researchers produce strong, transparent carbon nanotube sheets". Physorg.com. 2005-08-18. Retrieved 2011-01-18. 
^ Wright, ibid. Ch 4
^ Rowe, W. m. 'Sail film materials and supporting structure for a solar sail, a preliminary design, volume 4." Jet Propulsion Lab. California, Pasadena, California.
^ a b Wright, ibid., chapter 1.
^ Wright, ibid., Ch 6 and Appendix C.
^ Smart lines for sailing operations
^ "Asteroid deflection/towing". 
^ "IKAROS Project｜JAXA Space Exploration Center". Jspec.jaxa.jp. 2010-05-21. Retrieved 2011-01-18. [dead link]
^ Tsuda, Yuichi (2011). "Solar Sail Navigation Technology of IKAROS". JAXA. 
^ "Small Solar Power Sail Demonstrator 'IKAROS' Successful Solar Sail Deployment". JAXA website press release. Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. 2010-06-11. Retrieved 2010-06-17. 
^ "News briefing: 27 May 2010". NatureNEWS. 26 May 2010. Retrieved 2 June 2010. 
^ Samantha Harvey (21 May 2010). "Solar System Exploration: Missions: By Target: Venus: Future: Akatsuki". NASA. Retrieved 2010-05-21. 
^ "About the confirmation of photon acceleration of "IKAROS" the small solar-sail demonstrating craft (There is not English press release yet)". JAXA website press release. Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency. 2010-07-09. Retrieved 2010-07-10. 
^ "Small Solar Power Sail Demonstrator". JAXA. 11 March 2010. Retrieved 2010-05-07. 
^ "IKAROS Project". JAXA. 2008. Retrieved 30 March 2010. [dead link]
^ McCurry, Justin (2010-05-17). "Space yacht Ikaros ready to cast off for far side of the Sun". London: The Guardian Weekly. Retrieved 2010-05-18. 
^ "Solar Sails Could Send Spacecraft 'Sailing' Through Space". 
^ "Full-scale deployment test of the DLR/ESA Solar Sail" (PDF). 1999. 
^ "Cosmos 1 - Solar Sail (2004) Japanese Researchers Successfully Test Unfurling of Solar Sail on Rocket Flight". 2004. [dead link]
^ Friedman Louis, "The Rise and Fall of Cosmos 1", http://sail.planetary.org/story-part-2.html
^ "SSSat 1, 2". Space.skyrocket.de. Retrieved 2011-01-18. 
^ NASASpaceflight.com - SpaceX Falcon I FAILS during first stage flight[dead link] Archived August 11, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "NASA to Attempt Historic Solar Sail Deployment". NASA. 2008-06-26. [dead link]
^ "NASA Chat: First Solar Sail Deploys in Low-Earth Orbit". NASA. 2011-01-27. Retrieved 18 May 2012. Sometimes the satellite is called NanoSail-D and sometimes NanoSail-D2. ... Dean: The project is just NanoSail-D. NanoSail-D2 is the serial #2 version. 
^ Nasa report on mission
^ Nasa report on mission
^ "NASA - NanoSail-D Home Page". Nasa.gov. 2011-01-21. Retrieved 2011-01-24. 
^ OVERBYE, DENNIS (November 9, 2009). "Setting Sail Into Space, Propelled by Sunshine". Retrieved 18 May 2012. Planetary Society, ... the next three years, ... series of solar-sail spacecraft dubbed LightSails 
^ a b "LightSail Mission FAQ". The Planetary Society. Retrieved 18 May 2012. [dead link]
^ Nye, Bill. Kickstart LightSail. Event occurs at 3:20. Retrieved 15 May 2015. 
^ "Blastoff! X-37B Space Plane and LightSail Solar Sail Go Into Orbit". 
^ "Nasa Solar Sail Demonstration". www.nasa.gov. 
^ Leonard David (January 31, 2013). "NASA to Launch World's Largest Solar Sail in 2014". Space.com. Retrieved June 13, 2013. 
^ a b Mike Wall (June 13, 2013). "World's Largest Solar Sail to Launch in November 2014". Space.com. Retrieved June 13, 2013. 
^ Leone, Dan (October 17, 2014). "NASA Nixes Sunjammer Mission, Cites Integration, Schedule Risk". spacenews.com. 
^ "NEA Scout". NASA. Retrieved February 11, 2016. 
^ McNutt, Leslie; Castillo-Rogez, Julie (2014). "Near-Earth Asteroid Scout" (PDF). NASA. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Retrieved 2015-05-13. 
^ Krebs, Gunter Dirk (13 April 2015). "NEA-Scout". Retrieved 2015-05-13. 
^ Castillo-Rogez, Julie; Abell, Paul. "Near Earth Asteroid Scout Mission" (PDF). NASA. Lunar and Planetary Institute. Retrieved 2015-05-13. 
^ Gebhardt, Chris (November 27, 2015). "NASA identifies secondary payloads for SLS's EM-1 mission". NASAspaceflight. 
^ "Breakthrough Starshot". Breakthrough Initiatives. 12 April 2016. Retrieved 2016-04-12. 
^ Starshot - Concept.
^ Starshot - Target
^ a b c Jerome Wright, Space Sailing, Activity and History (accessed 24 Dec 2015)
^ Stross, Charles (2005). "Accelerando". Antipope.org. Retrieved 2013-11-30. 


Bibliography[edit]

G. Vulpetti, Fast Solar Sailing: Astrodynamics of Special Sailcraft Trajectories, ;;Space Technology Library Vol. 30, Springer, August 2012, (Hardcover) http://www.springer.com/engineering/mechanical+engineering/book/978-94-007-4776-0, (Kindle-edition), ASIN: B00A9YGY4I
G. Vulpetti, L. Johnson, G. L. Matloff, Solar Sails: A Novel Approach to Interplanetary Flight, Springer, August 2008, ISBN 978-0-387-34404-1
J. L. Wright, Space Sailing, Gordon and Breach Science Publishers, London, 1992; Wright was involved with JPL's effort to use a solar sail for a rendezvous with Halley's comet.
NASA/CR 2002-211730, Chapter IV[dead link]— presents an optimized escape trajectory via the H-reversal sailing mode
G. Vulpetti, The Sailcraft Splitting Concept, JBIS, Vol. 59, pp. 48–53, February 2006
G. L. Matloff, Deep-Space Probes: To the Outer Solar System and Beyond, 2nd ed., Springer-Praxis, UK, 2005, ISBN 978-3-540-24772-2
T. Taylor, D. Robinson, T. Moton, T. C. Powell, G. Matloff, and J. Hall, "Solar Sail Propulsion Systems Integration and Analysis (for Option Period)", Final Report for NASA/MSFC, Contract No. H-35191D Option Period, Teledyne Brown Engineering Inc., Huntsville, AL, May 11, 2004
G. Vulpetti, "Sailcraft Trajectory Options for the Interstellar Probe: Mathematical Theory and Numerical Results", the Chapter IV of NASA/CR-2002-211730, The Interstellar Probe (ISP): Pre-Perihelion Trajectories and Application of Holography, June 2002
G. Vulpetti, Sailcraft-Based Mission to The Solar Gravitational Lens, STAIF-2000, Albuquerque (New Mexico, USA), 30 January – 3 February 2000
G. Vulpetti, "General 3D H-Reversal Trajectories for High-Speed Sailcraft", Acta Astronautica, Vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 67–73, 1999
C. R. McInnes, Solar Sailing: Technology, Dynamics, and Mission Applications, Springer-Praxis Publishing Ltd, Chichester, UK, 1999, ISBN 978-3-540-21062-7
Genta, G., and Brusa, E., "The AURORA Project: a New Sail Layout", Acta Astronautica, 44, No. 2–4, pp. 141–146 (1999)
S. Scaglione and G. Vulpetti, "The Aurora Project: Removal of Plastic Substrate to Obtain an All-Metal Solar Sail", special issue of Acta Astronautica, vol. 44, No. 2–4, pp. 147–150, 1999

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Solar sails.



"Deflecting Asteroids" by Gregory L. Matloff, IEEE Spectrum, April 2012
Planetary Society's solar sailing project
The Solar Photon Sail Comes of Age by Gregory L. Matloff
NASA Mission Site for NanoSail-D
NanoSail-D mission: Dana Coulter, "NASA to Attempt Historic Solar Sail Deployment"[dead link], NASA, June 28, 2008
Far-out Pathways to Space: Solar Sails from NASA
Solar Sails Comprehensive collection of solar sail information and references, maintained by Benjamin Diedrich. Good diagrams showing how light sailors must tack.
U3P Multilingual site with news and flight simulators
ISAS Deployed Solar Sail Film in Space
Suggestion of a solar sail with roller reefing, hybrid propulsion and a central docking and payload station.
Interview with NASA's JPL about solar sail technology and missions
Website with technical pdf-files about solar-sailing, including NASA report and lectures at Aerospace Engineering School of Rome University[dead link]
Advanced Solar- and Laser-pushed Lightsail Concepts
Andrews, D. G. (2003). "Interstellar Transportation using Today's Physics" (PDF). AIAA Paper 2003-4691. American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. [dead link]
www.aibep.org: Official site of American Institute of Beamed Energy Propulsion
Space Sailing Sailing ship concepts, operations, and history of concept
Bernd Dachwald's Website Broad information on sail propulsion and missions







v
t
e


Spacecraft propulsion






Chemical
rockets




State



Liquid-propellant rocket
Solid-propellant rocket
Hybrid-propellant rocket








Propellants



Liquid propellants

Cryogenic
Hypergolic


Monopropellant
Bipropellant

Staged combustion cycle
Expander cycle
Gas-generator cycle
Tap-off cycle
Pressure-fed engine
Pump-fed engine
Electric pump-fed engine


Tripropellant











Electrical
thrusters




Electrostatic



Colloid thruster
Ion thruster

Gridded
Hall effect thruster
Field-emission electric propulsion
Ionocraft










Electromagnetic



Pulsed inductive thruster
Magnetoplasmadynamic thruster
Electrodeless plasma thruster
VASIMR








Electrothermal



Pulsed plasma thruster
Helicon Double Layer Thruster
Arcjet rocket
Resistojet rocket








Other



MagBeam
High Power Electric Propulsion
Mass driver
Resonant cavity thruster











Nuclear
propulsion




Closed system



Nuclear electric rocket
Nuclear thermal rocket

Radioisotope
Salt-water
Gas core
"Lightbulb"










Open system



Nuclear pulse propulsion

Antimatter-catalyzed


Pulsed nuclear thermal rocket‎
Fusion rocket

Bussard ramjet


Fission-fragment rocket

Fission sail


Nuclear photonic rocket











Other



Cold gas thruster
Solar sail

Electric sail
Magnetic sail


Beam-powered propulsion
Solar thermal rocket
Tethers
Gravity assist
Anti-gravity









Spaceflight portal










v
t
e


Emerging technologies







Technology






Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural robot
Closed ecological systems
Cultured meat
Genetically modified food
Precision agriculture
Vertical farming








Architecture



Arcology
Building printing

Contour crafting
D-Shape


Domed city








Biomedical



Artificial uterus
Ampakine
Brain transplant
Cryonics

Cryoprotectant
Cryopreservation
Vitrification
Suspended animation


De-extinction
Genetic engineering

Gene therapy


Head transplant
Isolated brain
Life extension

Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence


Nanomedicine
Nanosensors
Personalized medicine
Regenerative medicine

Stem-cell therapy
Tissue engineering


Robot-assisted surgery
Synthetic biology

Synthetic genomics


Virotherapy

Oncolytic virus


Tricorder
Whole genome sequencing








Displays




Next generation



FED
FLCD
iMoD
Laser
LPD
OLED
OLET
QD-LED
SED
TPD
TDEL
TMOS








Screenless



Bionic contact lens
Head-mounted display
Head-up display
Optical head-mounted display
Virtual retinal display








Other



Autostereoscopy
Flexible display
Holographic display

Computer-generated holography


Multi-primary color display
Ultra HD
Volumetric display











Electronics



Electronic nose
E-textiles
Flexible electronics
Molecular electronics
Nanoelectromechanical systems
Memristor
Spintronics
Thermal copper pillar bump








Energy




Production



Airborne wind turbine
Artificial photosynthesis
Biofuels
Carbon-neutral fuel
Concentrated solar power
Fusion power
Home fuel cell
Hydrogen economy
Methanol economy
Molten salt reactor
Nantenna
Photovoltaic pavement
Space-based solar power
Vortex engine








Storage



Beltway battery
Compressed air energy storage
Flywheel energy storage
Grid energy storage
Lithium–air battery
Molten salt battery
Nanowire battery
Research in lithium-ion batteries
Silicon–air battery
Thermal energy storage
Ultracapacitor








Other



Smart grid
Wireless power












IT and
communications




Ambient intelligence

Internet of Things


Artificial intelligence

Applications of artificial intelligence
Progress in artificial intelligence
Machine translation
Machine vision
Semantic Web
Speech recognition


Atomtronics
Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor
Cybermethodology
Fourth-generation optical discs

3D optical data storage
Holographic data storage


GPGPU
Memory

CBRAM
FRAM
Millipede
MRAM
NRAM
PRAM
Racetrack memory
RRAM
SONOS


Optical computing
Quantum computing
Quantum cryptography
RFID

Chipless RFID


Software-defined radio
Three-dimensional integrated circuit








Manufacturing



3D printing
Claytronics
Molecular assembler
Utility fog








Materials science



Aerogel
Amorphous metal
Artificial muscle
Conductive polymer
Femtotechnology
Fullerene
Graphene
High-temperature superconductivity
High-temperature superfluidity
Linear acetylenic carbon
Metamaterials

Metamaterial cloaking


Metal foam
Multi-function structures
Nanotechnology

Carbon nanotubes
Molecular nanotechnology
Nanomaterials


Picotechnology
Programmable matter
Quantum dots
Silicene
Superalloy
Synthetic diamond








Military



Antimatter weapon
Caseless ammunition
Directed-energy weapon

Laser
Maser
Particle-beam weapon
Sonic weapon
Coilgun
Railgun


Plasma weapon
Pure fusion weapon
Stealth technology
Vortex ring gun








Neuroscience



Artificial brain

Blue Brain Project


Brain–computer interface
Electroencephalography
Mind uploading

Brain-reading
Neuroinformatics


Neuroprosthetics

Bionic eye
Brain implant
Exocortex
Retinal implant










Robotics



Domotics
Nanorobotics
Powered exoskeleton
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Swarm robotics
Uncrewed vehicle








Space science




Launch



Fusion rocket
Non-rocket spacelaunch

Mass driver
Orbital ring
Space elevator
Space fountain
Space tether


Reusable launch system








Propulsion



Beam-powered propulsion
Ion thruster
Laser propulsion
Plasma propulsion engine

Helicon thruster
VASIMR


Project Orion
Nuclear pulse propulsion
Solar sail








Other



Interstellar travel
Propellant depot











Transport




Aerial



Adaptive compliant wing
Aeroscraft
Backpack helicopter
Delivery drone
Flying car
High-altitude platform
Jet pack
Pulse detonation engine
Scramjet
Spaceplane

Skylon


Supersonic transport








Land



Airless tire

Tweel


Alternative fuel vehicle

Hydrogen vehicle


Driverless car
Ground effect train
Maglev train
Personal rapid transit
Vactrain

ET3 Global Alliance
Hyperloop


Vehicular communication systems








Pipeline



Pneumatic transport

Automated vacuum collection
Foodtubes













Other



Anti-gravity
Cloak of invisibility
Digital scent technology
Force field

Plasma window


Immersive virtual reality

VirtuSphere


Magnetic refrigeration
Phased-array optics
Quantum technology

Quantum teleportation













Topics



Collingridge dilemma
Differential technological development
Ephemeralization
Exploratory engineering
Fictional technology
Proactionary principle
Technological change

Technological unemployment


Technological convergence
Technological evolution
Technological paradigm
Technology forecasting

Accelerating change
Moore's law
Technological singularity
Technology scouting


Technology readiness level
Technology roadmap
Transhumanism











 Category
 List









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Solar_sail&oldid=763535883"					
Categories: Solar sailingSpacecraft attitude controlSpacecraft propulsionSpacecraft componentsInterstellar travelMicrowave technologyPhotonicsEmerging technologiesHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2016Webarchive template wayback linksArticles with dead external links from June 2016CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listPages using ISBN magic linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2011Articles with unsourced statements from October 2009Articles containing potentially dated statements from December 2013All articles containing potentially dated statementsCommons category with local link same as on Wikidata 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةCatalàČeštinaDeutschEestiEspañolEuskaraFrançaisहिन्दीHrvatskiItalianoעבריתLimburgsMagyarBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 February 2017, at 20:22.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.744","walltime":"0.848","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5948,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":250763,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":11142,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":20,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  663.117      1 -total"," 54.70%  362.693      1 Template:Reflist"," 24.54%  162.710     46 Template:Cite_web"," 15.21%  100.858     19 Template:Fix"," 10.85%   71.932     10 Template:Navbox","  9.71%   64.412     38 Template:Category_handler","  9.45%   62.666     16 Template:Dead_link","  9.20%   61.015      3 Template:Citation_needed","  4.57%   30.300      8 Template:Convert","  4.15%   27.548      3 Template:Delink"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.337","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":8126051,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1251","timestamp":"20170205074705","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":63,"wgHostname":"mw1244"});});
