 







Portal:Earth sciences

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

The Earth Sciences Portal


Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



edit  
Introduction



Earth Science is the branch that deals with physical constitution of the Earth and its atmosphere. Earth sciences (also known as geoscience, the geosciences or Earth Science) is an all-embracing term for the sciences related to the planet Earth. They are a special type of planetary sciences which deal with the structure and composition of the Earth, its origins, physical features, changing aspects, and all of its natural phenomena. Earth is the only planet known to have life, and hence the only planet with biological processes and a biosphere.
The major disciplines of Earth sciences use physics, mathematics, and chemistry to build a quantitative understanding of the principal areas or spheres of the Earth system. As in many sciences, the Earth can be studied both experimentally and theoretically. Also, there are both reductionist and holistic approaches to Earth Science.
Although mining and precious stones have been in human interests throughout the history of civilization, their development into the sciences of economic geology and mineralogy did not occur until the 18th century. The study of the earth, particularly palaeontology, blossomed in the 19th century and the growth of other disciplines like geophysics in the 20th century led to the development of the theory of plate tectonics in the 1960s, which has had a similar impact on the Earth sciences as the theory of evolution had on biology. Earth sciences today are closely linked to climate research and the petroleum and mineral exploration industries.
Applications of Earth sciences include the exploration and exploitation of mineral and hydrocarbon resources, cartography, weather forecasting patterns, and warning of volcanic eruptions. Earth sciences are related to the environmental sciences as well as the other subfields of planetary astronomy.
 Earth sciences...



Show new selections below


edit  
Selected article



Turquoise is an opaque, blue-to-green mineral that is a hydrous phosphate of copper and aluminium, with the chemical formula CuAl6(PO4)4(OH)8·4H2O. It is rare and valuable in finer grades and has been prized as a gem and ornamental stone for thousands of years owing to its unique hue. In recent times turquoise, like most other opaque gems, has been devalued by the introduction of treatments, imitations, and synthetics onto the market, some difficult to detect even by experts. The substance has been known by many names, but the word turquoise was derived around 16th century from the French language either from the word for Turkish (Turquois) or dark-blue stone (pierre turquin). This may have arisen from a misconception: turquoise does not occur in Turkey but was traded at Turkish bazaars to Venetian merchants who brought it to Europe. The colour, however, has been employed extensively in the decorative tiles adorning Turkish places of worship and homes for hundreds of years, beginning with the Seljuks, and the association quite possibly has caused the name to take root.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Markus Bernet



Northern shore meadows of Sihlsee, an artificial lake near Einsiedeln in the Canton of Schwyz, Switzerland.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...









edit  
Did you know?




...that a pit crater (example pictured), unlike an impact crater, is formed by the ground sinking over a void such as an emptied magma chamber or caldera?
...that the late Paleozoic environment of the Chaco-Tarija sedimentary basin of Bolivia has been likened to that of present-day Labrador Sea?
...that there was intense volcanic activity in Uruguay during the Cretaceous period about 130 million years ago?
...that six prehistoric meteorite impacts have created large astroblemes affecting the geology of Saskatchewan?
... that the Wairau, Awatere, Clarence and Hope faults, are the main active faults of the Marlborough Fault System, and carry most of the displacement on the Australian-Pacific plate boundary in northern South Island?
... that a revolution in burrowing marks the base of the Cambrian period, and is followed by the Cambrian explosion of animal diversity?

Archive – Start a new article...



edit  
Things you can do





Edit an Earth sciences article


Whether you are an expert or a novice, be bold, improve an article by editing it. If you're not sure how to do it, practice in the sandbox.


Join one of the WikiProjects listed below.

Watch its talk page for earth science-related issues on Wikipedia.


Improve this portal

Add to the Did you know list.
Add new Selected articles and Selected pictures to the queues.
Revive Earth sciences news.


Review articles

Assign importance and quality to unassessed articles (see the project's assessment department).
If you see a problem you can't fix yourself, add a cleanup tag.


Advanced Editing

Expand a stub.
Fix a tagged cleanup issue and remove the tag.
Create a requested article.










edit  
WikiProjects




Earth science






Earth science









Caves









Climate change









Earthquakes









Geology









Glaciers











Mountains









Paleontology









Rocks and Minerals









Soil









Meteorology









Tropical Cyclones





See also






Volcanoes









Geography









Maps









History of Science









Science









edit  
Quality content



Featured articles 






Climate change (More...)

Global warming · Rachel Carson · Retreat of glaciers since 1850

Earthquakes (More...)

1949 Ambato earthquake · 1968 Illinois earthquake · 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens · 1997 Qayen earthquake · 2002 Bou'in-Zahra earthquake · 2005 Qeshm earthquake · 2007–2008 Nazko earthquakes

Volcanoes (More...)

1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens · 2007–2008 Nazko earthquakes · Amchitka · Armero tragedy · Calabozos · Cerro Azul (Chile volcano) · Craters of the Moon National Monument and Preserve · David A. Johnston · Geology of the Lassen volcanic area · Loihi Seamount · Mauna Kea · Mauna Loa · Metacomet Ridge · Mono–Inyo Craters · Mount Cayley volcanic field · Mount St. Helens · Mount Tambora · Nevado del Ruiz · Surtsey · The Volcano (British Columbia) · Upper and Lower Table Rock · Volcano (South Park) · Yellowstone National Park

Other geology (More...)

Mary Anning · Archaea · Archaeopteryx · Cerro Azul (Chile volcano) · Bryce Canyon National Park · Calabozos · Chicxulub crater · Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event · Charles Darwin · Earth · Ediacara biota · Geology of the Bryce Canyon area · Geology of the Capitol Reef area · Geology of the Death Valley area · Geology of the Grand Canyon area · Geology of the Lassen volcanic area · Geology of the Zion and Kolob canyons area · Global warming · Iridium · Oil shale · The Volcano (British Columbia) · Toronto Magnetic and Meteorological Observatory · Volcanology of Io · Yellowstone National Park

Geography (More...)

Antarctica · Australia · Bryce Canyon National Park · Carlsbad Caverns National Park · Craters of the Moon National Monument and Preserve · Death Valley National Park · Geography of India · Geography of Ireland · National parks of England and Wales · Niagara Falls · Rondane National Park · Shoshone National Forest · Yellowstone National Park · Yosemite National Park · Zion National Park




Featured topics 

1941 Atlantic hurricane season · 1991 Atlantic hurricane season · 1995 Pacific hurricane season · 1998 Pacific hurricane season · 2002 Atlantic hurricane season · 2003 Atlantic hurricane season · Category 5 Pacific hurricanes · Hurricane Isabel · Lists of Florida hurricanes · Lists of North Carolina hurricanes
· Retired Pacific hurricanes


Featured pictures 

 Views of Earth from space and satellites · Geology



Featured lists 


Baja California Peninsula hurricanes · California hurricanes · Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes · Category 5 Pacific hurricanes · Delaware hurricanes · Florida hurricanes · Florida hurricanes (pre-1900) · Florida hurricanes (1900–1949) · Florida hurricanes (1950–1974) · Florida hurricanes (1975–1999) · Florida hurricanes (2000–present) · Largest volcanic eruptions · New Jersey hurricanes · New York hurricanes · North Carolina hurricanes · North Carolina hurricanes (pre-1900) · North Carolina hurricanes (1900–1949) · North Carolina hurricanes (1950–1979) · North Carolina hurricanes (1980–present) · Retired Pacific hurricane names · Retired Pacific typhoon names (JMA) · Sites of special scientific interest in Cornwall · Snow events in Florida · South America tropical cyclones · Storms in the 2003 Atlantic hurricane season · Storms in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season · Timeline of the far future · United States hurricanes · volcanoes in the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain · Volcanoes in Indonesia · Wettest tropical cyclones in the United States







edit  
Related topics



For a more comprehensive treatment of topics, see Outline of earth science and Index of earth science articles


Atmosphere
Hydrosphere
Lithosphere




Atmospheric chemistry
Climatology
Meteorology

Hydrometeorology


Paleoclimatology




Hydrology

Glaciology
Limnology


Hydrogeology
Oceanography

Chemical oceanography
Marine biology
Marine geology
Paleoceanography
Physical oceanography






Geology
Geochemistry
Geography
Geomorphology
Hydrogeology
Mineralogy
Petrology
Volcanology
Speleology




Biosphere
Systems
Others




Biogeography
Paleontology

Palynology
Micropaleontology


Geomicrobiology




Environmental science
Geography

Human geography
Physical geography


Gaia hypothesis




Cartography
Geoinformatics (GIS)
Geophysics
Geostatistics
Geodesy and Surveying
Soil Science

Edaphology
Pedology








Categories





Earth sciences • Atmospheric sciences • Ecology • Environmental science • Geography • Geology • Geomorphology • Geophysics • Glaciology • History of Earth science • Hydrology • Limnology • Oceanography • Paleoclimatology • Palynology • Physical geography • Soil science • Space science • Speleology 










edit  
Related Portals









Earthquakes









Geography









Global warming









Sustainable development









Tropical cyclones









Volcanoes









Weather






Science
 History of science    Philosophy of science    Systems science    Mathematics    Biology    Chemistry    Physics    Earth sciences    Technology   




edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Earth sciences on Wikinews    
Earth sciences on Wikiquote    
Earth sciences on Wikibooks    
Geology portal on Wikisource    
Earth sciences on Wiktionary    
Earth sciences on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images & Media




























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Earth_sciences&oldid=709076166"					
Categories: Physical science portalsGeology portalsEarth sciencesHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDeutschEspañolفارسیBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLëtzebuergesch日本語PortuguêsසිංහලSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiТатарча/tatarçaУкраїнська粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 March 2016, at 01:02.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.172","walltime":"0.325","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1715,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":78347,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":11615,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  235.907      1 -total"," 30.30%   71.473      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 14.21%   33.513      1 Portal:Earth_sciences/Wikiprojects"," 11.40%   26.885      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 10.34%   24.385      1 Template:Top_icon","  9.54%   22.499      1 Portal:Earth_sciences/portal_bar","  8.87%   20.933      1 Portal:Earth_sciences/Featured_content","  8.21%   19.370      4 Template:Hidden","  8.13%   19.179      1 Portal:Earth_sciences/Selected_pictures/Layout","  7.30%   17.211      1 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.030","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":956426,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1270","timestamp":"20170211173209","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":61,"wgHostname":"mw1181"});});
