 






Wikipedia:WikiProject History of Science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search









History of science




Background


Theories and sociology
Historiography
Pseudoscience








By era


Early cultures
Classical Antiquity
The Golden Age of Islam
Renaissance
Scientific Revolution
Romanticism








By culture


African
Byzantine
Medieval European
Chinese
Indian
Medieval Islamic








Natural sciences


Astronomy
Biology
Botany
Chemistry
Ecology
Evolution
Geology
Geophysics
Paleontology
Physics








Mathematics


Algebra
Calculus
Combinatorics
Geometry
Logic
Probability
Statistics
Trigonometry








Social sciences


Anthropology
Economics
Geography
Linguistics
Political science
Psychology
Sociology
Sustainability








Technology


Agricultural science
Computer science
Materials science
Engineering








Medicine


Human medicine
Veterinary medicine
Anatomy
Neuroscience
Neurology
Nutrition
Pathology
Pharmacy








 Timelines
 Portal
 Category







v
t
e











Welcome




History of science portal



Shortcuts:

WP:WPHOS
WP:SCIHIST


This is the page for the History of Science WikiProject. If you would like to participate, add your name to list of participants below. Be sure to check out the discussion page and newsletter as well.





Project overview[edit]





Project overview



Parent projects: Wikipedia:WikiProject History and Wikipedia:WikiProject Science

This project focuses on creating and improving content related to the history of science, science studies, STS, HPS, etc. This includes the philosophy of science, as well as history of technology, mathematics and medicine. The project also focuses on improving the categorization of History of Science-related articles and maintaining Portal:History of science.








Contents


1 Project overview
2 To do
3 Article assessment
4 Participant info

4.1 Userbox
4.2 Members


5 Current goals
6 Possible projects
7 Categorization and media
8 Writing and editing

8.1 In need of expansion
8.2 Requested articles

8.2.1 Missing scientist
8.2.2 Fields/disciplines
8.2.3 Other


8.3 Heavy copyediting
8.4 Auto-updated

8.4.1 History of science




9 Related pages

9.1 WikiProjects
9.2 Portals
9.3 Collaborations


10 External sites




To do[edit]





To do



Main : Writing and Editing needs, Other suggested projects, Open tasks.


Identify unmarked: history of science stubs and add {{sci-hist-stub}} to them, or expand history of science stubs into full articles.
Grab your favorite reference work and identify missing articles on notable scientists for the Missing scientist articles list, and/or create articles for them.




The History of Science Collaboration is On the Origin of Species.




Categories for discussion


07 Feb 2017 – Category:Research institutes in Hisar (talk · edit · hist) was CfDed by Armbrust (t · c); see discussion


Good article nominees


27 Jan 2017 – Asa Gray (talk · edit · hist) was GA nominated by HalfGig (t · c); start discussion
25 Jan 2017 – Ross expedition (talk · edit · hist) was GA nominated by Chiswick Chap (t · c); start discussion
04 Jan 2017 – History of agriculture (talk · edit · hist) was GA nominated by Chiswick Chap (t · c); start discussion
18 Oct 2016 – History of Animals (talk · edit · hist) was GA nominated by Graham87 (t · c); start discussion







Article assessment[edit]





Article assessment


Add the project template {{WikiProject History of Science}} to the talk pages of history of science articles, and rate articles according to their quality and importance.


WikiProject History of Science
(Rated NA-class)
History of ScienceWikipedia:WikiProject History of ScienceTemplate:WikiProject History of Sciencehistory of science articles









History of science portal




v
t
e


This page is part of the History of Science WikiProject, an attempt to improve and organize the history of science content on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, you can edit the article attached to this page, or visit the project page, where you can join the project and/or contribute to the discussion. You can also help with the History of Science Collaboration of the Month.



 NA 
This page does not require a rating on the project's quality scale.





 















History of science articles by quality and importance


Quality
Importance


Top
High
Mid
Low
NA
???
Total


 FA
5
20
15
8

1
49


 FL


3
1


4


 A

2




2


 GA
9
17
29
18

3
76


B
24
73
128
55

55
335


C
11
65
110
104

98
388


Start
11
63
182
372

248
876


Stub

16
23
174
2
75
290


List

5
22
311
2
470
810


Category




548

548


Portal




3

3


Project




18

18


Template




24

24


NA



1
35

36


Assessed
60
261
512
1,044
632
950
3,459


Unassessed


1


68
69


Total
60
261
513
1,044
632
1,018
3,528


WikiWork factors (?)
ω = 7003884800000000000♠8,848
Ω = 4.38








Participant info[edit]


WikiProject participants

Userbox[edit]
You can add the tag below to your userpage.
Tag: {{User WikiProject History of Science}}




This user is a member of the History of Science WikiProject.




Members[edit]
Please feel free to add yourself here, and to indicate any areas of particular interest.


Chhandama (talk · contribs) -- general history of science, ancient to modern
Intwizs (talk · contribs) -- Background: B.E in Electrical and Electronics Engineering from Anna University ; Interests: global and societal impact of engineering
LupusMundani (talk · contribs) -- cosmology, physics
Ragesoss (talk · contribs) -- physical sciences, biological sciences, technology
dantheox (talk · contribs)
Xuanwu (talk · contribs)
Fastfission (talk · contribs) -- esp. modern physical and biological sciences
Linas (talk · contribs) -- limited to history of physics
Karol Langner (talk · contribs)
Pjacobi (talk · contribs)
Laurascudder (talk · contribs) -- history of physics and medicine
Heron (talk · contribs)
Ancheta Wis (talk · contribs)
Chaiken (talk · contribs) -- physics, materials science, electrical engineering
Kripkenstein (talk · contribs) -- history of philosophy and science in the Middle Ages
Eric Forste (talk · contribs) -- History of chemistry
AppleRaven (talk · contribs) -- US Astronomy and Astronomical Observatories
deeptrivia (talk · contribs) -- mechanics, physics, engineering, thermodynamics, mathematics. I'll also help ensure that the perspective remains global rather than Eurocentric.
Tonymaric (talk · contribs)
DonSiano (talk · contribs) -- Industrial Revolution
Petaholmes (talk · contribs) -- biology esp. botany and genetics
Gihan Jayaweera (talk · contribs) -- biology esp. botany and zoology and endemics of Sri Lanka
Samsara (talk · contribs) -- biology, esp. translations of German articles
Intranetusa (talk · contribs) -- religion and science, fundamentalism & the creationist/intelligent design wave as a challenge to science
Joke137 (talk · contribs) -- cosmology, particle physics, general relativity. I don't know much, but I do what I can.
JackyR (talk · contribs) -- whatever I can remember from college HPS, but I might be good on local Cambridge stuff.
KSchutte (talk · contribs) -- history of natural philosophy, psychology, neuroscience
Peterlewis (talk · contribs) -- history of engineering
redcalx (talk · contribs)
Lacatosias (talk · contribs) -- history of physics, math, logic.
Cugel (talk · contribs) -- psychology (anything to do with the scientific discipline)
Leinad-Z (talk · contribs) -- esp. medieval science, and the relationship between science and religion.
Sayeth (talk · contribs) -- biology, esp. neuroscience and molecular biology
Carboxen (talk · contribs) -- history of chemistry and geology, translations from German
Maestlin (talk · contribs) -- astronomy to Kepler/Galileo, Sci. Revolution, religion and science
Apwoolrich (talk · contribs) -- History and biography of historic mechanical engineering and invention; Industrial Revolution; Admin on Wikisource
Deditos (talk · contribs) -- Meteorology, climatology, oceanography and bits of other Earth science.
IanWills (talk · contribs) -- Engineering related including invention and the history of technology. Particularly interested in Edison and late nineteenth century American inventors.
Ricochet17 (talk · contribs) -- genetics, history of science 17th-19th centuries
SOPHIA (talk · contribs) -- History of astronomy, telescope manufacturers and astrophysics
Wijnand (talk · contribs) -- History of mathematics and its applications in technology, mainly 19th century
MikeMorley (talk · contribs) -- History of physics, mostly - will work elsewhere if can contribute. Undergrad Physicist, 'minored' in History and Philosophy of Science in 2nd year.
Beland (talk · contribs) -- Studied STS at MIT.
Dumarest (talk · contribs) -- M.D. Ph.D. biochemistry, research career in Sickle Cell Disease, now retired, and with time on my hands.
Sina2 (talk · contribs) -- Mathematics, Computing, Information
SteveMcCluskey (talk · contribs) -- History of Astronomy, Archaeoastronomy, Medieval Science
Goclenius (talk · contribs) -- natural philosophy, esp. 17th century and late Aristotelian; mathematics
General Eisenhower (talk · contribs)
Museumfreak (talk · contribs) -- HCI/informatics/history of computing, history of anthropology, science technology society, history of public health
TheGodEmperor (talk · contribs) -- limited mid-HS knowledge, but will help if I can
TedE (talk · contribs) -- PhD in statistics, currently teaching genetics.
Alexei Kouprianov (talk · contribs) -- PhD in History of Science, history of natural history, science in Russia. Background: M.Sc. biology.
Science History (talk · contribs)
WillowW (talk · contribs) -- Sincere dilettante; enjoys translating old texts
Bwi410 (talk · contribs)
Reswik (talk · contribs) -- science studies / sociology of science
Rusty Cashman (talk · contribs) -- Biology, Paleontology
hapagrrl1 (talk · contribs) -- MA in Victorian Studies
Curtius (talk · contribs) -- Ancients
Bakterius (talk · contribs) -- Computer Science, Psychology, Translation (en,de,es)
Jpbowen (talk · contribs) -- Science museums, history of computing
Fred.e (talk · contribs) -- review as reader of science; know a bit of fringe stuff; NPOV
Aleta (talk · contribs) -- esp. geology (which I didn't see listed in the navbar!?)
Eperotao (talk · contribs) -- MA zoology, excellent general knowledge of biology, biology writer/editor
Brassratgirl (talk · contribs) -- librarian in a science & engineering library; working on sources for historical scientist biographies (my notes)
Shyamal (talk · contribs) -- biology, natural history, science ...
Albie34423 (talk · contribs)
Anonymous Dissident (talk · contribs)
Carcharoth (talk · contribs) -- history and philosophy of science, chemistry, physics, biographies
davimre (talk · contribs)-- scientific and musical instruments, open source communities, the economic sociology of taste
Grimhelm (talk · contribs) -- Working on ancient and medieval Science, and History of science in China at the moment; especially providing citations to articles.
Quarl (talk · contribs)
Madcoverboy (talk · contribs) -- Working on United States technological and industrial history and History of MIT, BS Mechanical Engineering & BS STS
Michelferrari (talk · contribs) -- Ph.D. in Psychology
Thony C. (talk · contribs)-- history and philosophy of science and mathematical sciences 1400 to 1700
GeoWriter (talk · contribs) -- geology, volcanoes
Reddi (talk · contribs) -- Most history, Western and Middle East; Weak on Asian
Ruud Koot (talk · contribs) -- History of mathematics
D.H (talk · contribs) -- History of special relativity, aether, and experiments.
Sdsds (talk · contribs) -- History of spaceflight science
MarcoTolo (talk · contribs)
AlphaEta (talk · contribs) -- History of microbiology and molecular biology
Maias (talk · contribs) -- Natural history and palaeontology of SE Asia and Australasia
Insomniduck (talk · contribs) -- history of science and technology, especially astrophysics & biological sciences; also interested in science & women/law/religion
Bryce268 (talk · contribs) -- History of technology, mathematics, engineering
Macdonald-ross (talk · contribs) 21:50, 31 July 2007 (UTC) — History of biology, evolution, biography of major figures
dhaluza (talk · contribs)
Bulldog123 (talk · contribs) history of engineering, interest in pseudosciences, though not exactly an expert in either
djsmitherman (talk · contribs) philosophy of science, evolution of human consciousness
Gavantredoux (talk · contribs) Francis Galton; Richard Burton; Cyril Burt; Cyril Darlington; History of Behaviour Genetics and Differential Psychology, especially the London School.
Notafly (talk · contribs) -- History of entomology, biography of major figures
Luca Borghi (talk · contribs) -- History of Medicine and other health-related subjects
Michael Daly (talk · contribs) -- History of scientific instruments, particularly in astronomy, navigation and surveying
MrBrumby (talk · contribs) -- Medicine, Education and related subjects
Lsisson (talk · contribs) -- Disease and Medical History / Evolution / Military Technology
Jfdwolff (talk · contribs) -- History of modern medicine
Piotrus (talk · contribs) - Historiography, sociology
Shannon_bohle (talk · contribs) - archivist/academic; history of molecular biology, manned spaceflight, space medicine
Acnadwe (talk · contribs) - History of biology / Agricultural history
ScepticalChymist (talk · contribs) - 16th to 19th century chemistry.
MasterOfHisOwnDomain (talk) 11:00, 6 January 2008 (UTC) - History of Medicine (Prehistoric to 20th century)
Wloveral (talk · contribs) -- History of zoology and exploration
JTBurman (talk · contribs) -- History of psychology and biology, Historiography
Bwwm (talk · contribs) -- History of technology, 18th and 19th century science
Dr Dendro (talk · contribs)- physical science
Paulrach (talk · contribs) -- Interests in chemistry, and general sciences. Science education.
Espresso Addict (talk · contribs) -- 19th century medicine, history of biomedical publishing
Davidlud (talk · contribs) -- History of biology, psychology, computer science, sexology
Pgrapi (talk · contribs) -- History of chemistry, history of science and education
JohnnyCalifornia (talk · contribs) -- History of the scientific method, evolution, neuroscience, medicine, psychology.
A.C. Norman (talk · contribs) -- Physics, British science
Tsourkpk (talk · contribs) -- science of ancient civilizations
Awickert (talk · contribs) -- Pre-20th-century science, especially natural science, focusing on the 19th century, the Middle Ages, and ancient times
DavidCBeck (talk · contribs) -- history of science, medicine, and travel literature from 16th to 18th centuries, philosophy of history.
Ceramufary (talk · contribs) -- History of Biology, especially developmental and evolutionary biology.
Carpe Carpio (talk · contribs) -- History of scientific institutions, societies, and communities. 18th century
DAIVID MAKAU -- Physical sciences, biochemistry, organic and inorganic chemistry sciences
Dave souza (talk · contribs) -- Darwin, his colleagues and his predecessors.
Sasata (talk · contribs) -- Mycology
Arjen Dijksman (talk · contribs) -- Physics, physicists quotes
Ian Pitchford (talk · contribs) -- Historiography, evolutionary biology, physics, geology, chemistry.
Physchim62 (talk · contribs) -- Chemistry, physical science in general, particular interest in the development of the "atomic hypothesis" in the XIX century
Pyrotec (talk · contribs)
Max Vorwlicth (talk · contribs) -- History of physical sciences, nuclear sciences, computing, technology, science and media. 20th century.
Terry0051 (talk · contribs) -- Astronomy, mathematical astronomy, time, technology.
Ansi (talk · contribs)
Freekra (talk · contribs) -- History of medicine, history of psychiatry.
7kingis (talk · contribs)
Marcipangris (talk · contribs) -- chemistry
Thparkth (talk · contribs) -- Biographies of great scientists and engineers, communications and data processing technology 1700 - 2000
Shinryuu (talk · contribs) -- biology and biomedical sciences; 19th and early 20th century British and German scientists, esp. biologists and physiologists
jnl_chemist (talk · contribs) -- History of materials science and related fields (e.g. crystallography, solid state chemistry/physics, mineralogy)
RockMagnetist (talk · contribs) -- Geophysics and magnetism
Rursus (talk · contribs) -- Relation between science and religion, science and philosophy (from a historical perspective)
Jacqueshb (talk · contribs) -- Entomology: bibliography and systematic
Brothercanyouspareadime (talk · contribs) -- General XXth Century intellectual history; integration of modern physics models and Western psychotherapies with Eastern spiritual traditions. Toulmin, Feyerabend, John Wheeler; Manhattan project/Truman/Japanese survivors witness; disarmament
Al-Andalusi (talk · contribs) -- History of Islamic science
FESmitty77 (talk · contribs) -- Darwin, Battlefield Medicine
Zachariel (talk · contribs) -- History of Astronomy, Archaeoastronomy, Medieval Science
Grapplequip (talk · contribs) -- Science biographies, neuroscience, philosophy of science, ethology, evolutionary biology, sociobiology, anthropology
Carstensen (talk · contribs) -- biochemistry, Rosalind Franklin, Maurice Wilkins, Linus Pauling
J8079s (talk · contribs)
Rhododendryn (talk · contribs) -- geology & historical geology.
ARG1900 (talk · contribs)
callum.sutherland (talk · contribs) -- history of astronomy
Ed Poor (talk · contribs) -- controversies over who discovered what first; and ideas which gained quick acceptance only to be shown to be pseudoscience later or vice versa: great ideas stalled for decades or more by stubborn traditionalists
adh30 (talk · contribs) -- history of medicine; history of physiology
Skywalker7799 (talk · contribs) --Just your normal smart middle schooler who loves science
Dr SPWright (talk · contribs) -- history & philosophy of medicine, neuroscience, psychology, psychiatry, biological and social sciences
sweart1 (talk · contribs) -- history of modern physics, esp. nuclear and climate
wikimafiacapo (talk · contribs) -- biology, biochemistry, evolutionary biology, neuroscience, anthropology, geology, sociobiology
Trillig (talk · contribs) Trillig (talk) 14:56, 27 February 2013 (UTC)
Ajrocke (talk · contribs) -- history of chemistry, nineteenth century, Germany, France, Great Britain
Girona7 (talk · contribs) -- all areas of science, especially contributions of female scientists
Doctree (talk · contribs) -- Bird geek so birds, ornithology and related topics
Chiswick Chap (talk · contribs) -- Natural history
Kristephanie (talk · contribs) -- also philosophy of science
Persian Aviator (talk · contribs) History of science such as physics, mathematics, astronomy & medicine in land of Persia & Iran.
Cdhobbs9 (talk · contribs)Cdhobbs9 (talk) 02:17, 14 September 2013 (UTC) History of the origin of the earth, Astronomy, Meteorology, marketing and advertising.
Morphovariant (talk · contribs)
Hypatia137 (talk · contribs) history of astronomy and astrology, history of science in Islamic contexts, history of women in science
aanovick (talk · contribs) -- history of biology, current focus on the quinarian system
Jummals (talk · contribs)
Qxukhgiels (talk · contribs)-anything assoiciated with the major branches of science, especially in relation to space science.
Staticshakedown (talk · contribs)
Apidium23 (talk · contribs) Ancient non-western science, history of evolutionary thought.
SoSivr (talk · contribs) history of mathematics+logic
Umasankar28493 (talk · contribs) Automobile engineering, Thoughts on the nature of universe, Quantum physics
Dan Koehl (talk · contribs) middle schooler with interest in Zoos, aquariums and Zoology
Drianmcdonald (talk · contribs) Early modern phlogistic medicine.
Libertybison (talk)
Zeromonk (talk · contribs) anything really, but esp. human sciences (e.g. medicine, psychological science, etc.), twentieth century science, women in science
Histofscience (talk · contribs) history and philosophy of medicine
Iazyges (talk · contribs) Mostly Roman stuff
Piterkeo (talk · contribs) -- mostly biological sciences, especially biographies of naturalists


Current goals[edit]





Current goals


Current goals for the project include:

Identify and create missing history of science content
Organize and maintain the History of Science Collaboration of the Month
Improve the categorization and organization of history of science material
Gather interest and participation in a history of science community within Wikipedia, including a History of Science Collaboration project
Maintain and improve the History of Science Portal.

Create summaries for biweekly selected articles.
Find history of science related images for the weekly selected pictures.
Update the Did you know? section with interesting history of science trivia.
Add to today's anniversaries section- at Portal:History of science/Selected anniversaries/February 13.








Possible projects[edit]





Possible projects


Main article: /Projects
Suggest something for participants to work on. Older suggestions will be archived; to see what work others have requested, go to the /Projects subpage.





Categorization and media[edit]





Categorization and media




Click the "►" below to see all subcategories:





► History of science








Click the "►" below to see all subcategories:





► WikiProject History of Science







List of all subpages of this page
Wikipedia: Monitor the broad history of science categories and keep them clean by replacing overly broad categories with more specific ones.
Commons: Ensure that history of science-related images are properly categorized, especially in relevant history of science subcategories. Many history of science images are very poorly categorized, making it very difficult to find all the files on a given topic actually present.
Wikisource: Upload public domain content related to the history of science and ensure that existing content is properly categorized. There is currently very little marked history of science content on Wikisource.






Writing and editing[edit]





Writing and editing


In need of expansion[edit]

Timeline of scientific discoveries - needs a lot of expansion and improvement; each time you work on another subject, check to see if relevant discoveries are present in the timeline
History of materials science
Atomic theory
Theodosius Dobzhansky
Lise Meitner
Natural philosophy
History of optics - work in progress - needs medieval to modern coverage
Natural history - very bare, with some dubious information
History of genetics - expand timelines into prose
Heredity - is currently very poor, very short, and does not go back into concepts of heredity before the late 19th century in any appreciable sense.
Max Delbrück
History of zoology, post-Darwin - partly from EB 1911, in bad shape; needs copyediting as well. Now included in the Zoology navigation template; high priority, needs to incorporate the other good history of biology articles where appropriate
History of zoology (before Darwin) - partly from EB 1911, in bad shape; needs copyediting as well. High priority; in Zoology navigation template
The relationship between religion and science - partially historical. Needs a stronger framework, discussion of different models for the relationship (conflict thesis, NOMA, etc.) and either a link to a historical main article or a significant expansion of the historical part.
science studies
Silent Spring - needs section on historical significance, and better description of its contents; the only two sections of prose after the intro are currently Criticism and Vindication?, neither of which has much, if anything, worth keeping.
History of science in the Renaissance (links from history of science box)
History of molecular biology (see also molecular biology and Molecular structure of Nucleic Acids
Conflict thesis (aka, warfare model, Draper-White thesis) - The idea of a war between science and religion, which common in the historiography of sciece from the late 19th to the mid-20th centuries, and is still common among non-historians.
Henri Becquerel
Sofya Yanovskaya
History of paleontology - new article needs help from 19th century on
Biochemist Marianne Grunberg-Manago
United States technological and industrial history - Overlaid a table of contents and headers, but mostly empty as original article was largely abandoned as a stub
Space medicine - I've started building this page up but could use some helpShannon bohle 01:36, 1 December 2007 (UTC)
Space spinoffs - I've started this page, which focuses on the historical applications of space research and development: areas include engineering, health/medicine, computers, etc.Shannon bohle 01:59, 1 December 2007 (UTC)
Harry Collins
Bruno Latour
Ludwig Wittgenstein
Trevor Pinch
Science and technology in the Soviet Union and Suppressed research in the Soviet Union needs expansion, better integration of the two articles, and balance. I've left comments on the talk pages of each article outlining what I think the articles need. Peter G Werner (talk) 01:58, 3 July 2012 (UTC)

Requested articles[edit]

List of Colleges that offer History of Science Major
I am working on this --Morphovariant (talk) 19:14, 2 February 2014 (UTC)
I have created List of colleges and universities offering history of science programs --Morphovariant (talk) 00:56, 18 February 2014 (UTC)

Missing scientist[edit]

Missing scientist articles

Nils Eckholm - associated with early studies of CO2 and climate change
Robert L. Hill - biochemist, Duke University http://www.asbmb.org/uploadedfiles/aboutus/asbmb_history/past_presidents/1970s/1976hill.html should be correct object of link on page http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_participants_in_the_Evolving_Genes_and_Proteins_symposium
Fields/disciplines[edit]

History of environmental science (links from history of science box)
History of earth science
History of virology (see Virology)
History of bacteriology (see Bacteriology)
History of public health (see Public health)
History of accelerator physics or similar (see Particle physics and particle accelerator)
History of space exploration
History of molecular biology
History of physics and astronomy

Other[edit]

Patronage in the Renaissance (see Patronage)
Book of Nature
Aristotelian Physics




Would this be "Aristotle's views on what we today call physics"? We have an article on Aristotle's Physics but I'm not sure that's what is meant. --Fastfission 18:31, 7 February 2006 (UTC)




As in (I assume), the system of physics based on Aristotle's work, that was common in some form basically until Newton. Natural motion, natural place and the elements, violent motion, etc.--ragesoss 21:12, 8 February 2006 (UTC)






Aristotelian Mechanics (maybe just one of these, I'm not sure of the relationship)


Just one, I think; the main separation in Aristotle seems to be life sciences/physics Maestlin 08:01, 12 March 2006 (UTC)
If the distinction is between Aristotelian natural philosophy (based on the Physics, Generation and corruption, Meteora and the biological works) and the tradition based on the Problemata mechanica attributed to Aristotle (and the various pseudo-Problemata that appeared in the Medieval period), then I think that separate pages are historically justified. —Goclenius 03:16, 8 May 2006 (UTC)


Gravity theory


I think we need to separate Gravity from Gravity theory, but I'm not at all an expert on this. KSchutte 19:14, 12 March 2006 (UTC)


Tetrabiblos - There is a discussion right now on Wikipedia:Reference desk/Humanities under "Ptolemy" about the fact that it was redirecting. A stub article is needed as a placeholder.






The page has been created and is currently being developed. I have just added the WikiProject History of Science template to the talk page and would appreciate it if someone could add a rating to the importance scale. -- Zac  Δ talk! 10:13, 8 September 2011 (UTC)






Project Cosmic[1]
PaJaMo experiment - landmark molecular biology work by Arthur Pardee, François Jacob, and Jacques Monod
Three-Man Paper - an influential work on the physical nature of the gene by Hans Zimmer, Max Delbrück, and Nikolay Timofeev-Ressovsky
Articles listed under Wikipedia:WikiProject Birds/Article requests




There needs to be an entire new section on how emerging technologies can effect the commercial market, society and other historical events. I'm not sure where this belongs. But I state why I found this page.
Blue lasers capable of reading at higher data compression where developed, and then as a result the media market shifts from dvd to blue ray. Record to tape, VHS to DVD. Ships and Railways to Airplanes. Bronze to Iron. I mean really important stuff. Where to put it all.
The history pages relate history, the history of technology pages just talk about the technology of the time. But there isn't any page which singles out, defines, or attempts to summarize events where technological advancement was the primary source of constructive or distruptive, commerical or social change. Where's that page? Am I just not finding it?--Sparkygravity (talk) 14:20, 21 February 2008 (UTC)



Heavy copyediting[edit]

Science in Persia - needs copyediting for tone, style and grammar. Sangak 16:32, 28 February 2007 (UTC)
Gottfried Leibnitz - hagiographic, massively too big and still growing
Nuclear arms race
Scientific Revolution
Galileo affair
Genealogy of theoretical physicists, survived AfD, but needs work
John Harrison - lots of decent text, but needs structure
Islamic science
Galileo's Daughter - As of 30 May 2006, reads like a freshman book review
Nicole Oresme - Relies largely on one self-published source - see discussion
Alchemy - Quality varies widely; ignores much of the extensive literature on the History of Alchemy.
Rudolf Diesel - as explained on User talk:AQUA212, we should maybe first let this newcomer change their comments to edits, but (someone removed the comments) it'd be good if an expert checked the claimed errors too. --Espoo 14:13, 23 December 2006 (UTC)

Auto-updated[edit]


Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.

This below is transcluded from Wikipedia:Pages needing attention/History of science.
History of science[edit]

Portals

Portal:History of science


WikiProjects

Wikipedia:WikiProject History of Science


Categories covered

(in addition to those on the portal)
Category:Obsolete scientific theories
Category:Historiography of science


Stubs

No known specific categories, but anything under Category:Science stubs probably needs expansion to cover historical aspects.


Cleanup needed (updated by bot)

132 - Aether theories, Ancient Egyptian medicine, Ancient Medicine, Anecdotal cognitivism, Anthony Fauci, Antiscience, Aquatic adaptation, Architectural history, Architectural style, Astrology and astronomy, Babylonian influence on Greek astronomy, Basement show, Biolumanetics, Blog, Causal chain, Causality, Center Leo Apostel for Interdisciplinary Studies, Charles Apgar, Chinese star maps, Coherentism, Compatibilism and incompatibilism, Constructivist epistemology, Contextualism, Critical discourse analysis, Critical international relations theory, Cynic, Dean drive, Devico, Dialectical monism, Digital cinema, Doxa, E-Inclusion, E. O. Wilson, Eastern epistemology, Eclecticism, Economic calculation problem, Egocentric predicament, Electronic literature, Emotional Freedom Techniques, Evolution of multicellularity, Exceptionalism, Extraterrestrial hypothesis, Factory Managers, Fatalism, Gaia hypothesis, Game nou, Gaston Bachelard, Geber, Gene Matlock, Genpet, Gettier problem, Glenn T. Seaborg, Haymarket Riot, History of special relativity, History of street lighting in the United States, HomeRF, Hypokeimenon, ITT Corporation, Indeterminacy (Philosophy), Institute of Water Modelling, James Hansen, James McCanney, James Spudich, James Van Allen, Jero N° 9 Antwerpen 1911, John M. Cowley, Kybalion, Lexicon technicum, Libertarianism (metaphysics), List of critical theory topics, List of discredited substances, Livio Catullo Stecchini, Marginalism, Meridian (Chinese medicine), Milorad Bojic, Monism, Negentropy, Neuro-linguistic programming, New Age, New evil demon, North American smallpox epidemic, ODAM, Objectivity (philosophy), Onmyodo, Ontological reductionism, Organon, Peripatetic axiom, Phenomenon, Pierre-Simon Laplace, Pierre Duhem, Planetary Society, Pragmatism, ProSpace, Programming the Universe, Propaganda, Pseudoarchaeology, Quantum evolution (alternative), Quantum mechanics, philosophy and controversy, Quantum mind, Ramsey-Lewis method, Rationalist movement, Relativism, René Viénet, Research Consortium on Nearby Stars, Richard Lindzen, Robert Watson (scientist), Rupert Sheldrake, Sassanid architecture, Scientific evidence (law), Scientific skepticism, Skepticism, Social Darwinism, Space elevator economics, Spindle of Necessity, Spiritual evolution, Stanley Falkow, State of Fear, Sydney Brenner, Talk:Gerardus 't Hooft, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, Time in physics, Traditional Chinese star names, Turkish think tanks, Underdetermination, Underground culture, Vernon L. Smith, Vulcan of the alchemists, Walter Heitler, William Allen (Quaker), Wright Brothers flights of 1909, Écriture féminine


Expansion needed (updated by bot)

30 - Akira Ogata, Architectural mythology, Constantino Tsallis, Detlev Buchholz, Dot-com bubble, History of classical mechanics, History of optics, History of science in the Renaissance, Islamic medicine, Joseph E. Stiglitz, L5 Society, List of minority-opinion scientific theories, List of publications in philosophy, Logic in China, Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, Michael Stuart Brown, Nancy Stokey, Oldest railroads in North America, Positivism, Pramana, Shriners Hospitals for Children, Social constructionism, Sublime (philosophy), Talk:Clinton Davisson, Talk:Dieter Lüst, Talk:Gustaf Dalén, Talk:Hans Georg Dehmelt, Talk:Ivar Giaever, Talk:Riccardo Giacconi, Theodorus Janssonius van Almeloveen


Expert attention needed (updated by bot)

0 -


Wikification needed (updated by bot)

41 - 1970 world oil market chronology, 1972 world oil market chronology, 1973 world oil market chronology, 1974 world oil market chronology, 1975 world oil market chronology, 1976 world oil market chronology, 1977 world oil market chronology, 1978 world oil market chronology, 1979 world oil market chronology, 1980 world oil market chronology, 1981 world oil market chronology, 1982 world oil market chronology, 1983 world oil market chronology, 1984 world oil market chronology, 1985 world oil market chronology, 1987 world oil market chronology, 1988 world oil market chronology, 1989 world oil market chronology, 1990 world oil market chronology, 1991 world oil market chronology, 1992 world oil market chronology, 1993 world oil market chronology, 1994 world oil market chronology, 1995 world oil market chronology, 1996 world oil market chronology, 1997 world oil market chronology, 1998 world oil market chronology, 1999 world oil market chronology, 2000 world oil market chronology, 2001 world oil market chronology, 2003 world oil market chronology, Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics, Constructivist epistemology, Digit Fund, Logocentrism, Louis Guttman, Lysenkoism, Naturopathic medicine, Société Française d'Astronomie et d'Astrophysique, Thought Field Therapy, William Whewell


Neutrality in question (updated by bot)

39 - Alternative hip hop, Anti-metrication, Antonio Meucci, Applied kinesiology, Chi Machine, Critical Mass, Digital cinematography, Dysgenics, Emotional Freedom Techniques, Ex-gay, Extra-sensory perception, Gerson therapy, History of astronomy, History of the Wave Structure of Matter, Hypatia of Alexandria, Indeterminacy in computation, Interdimensional hypothesis, Ionized bracelet, Islamic science, Muslim flat-earth theories, Neuro-linguistic programming, Nobel Prize controversies, Parapsychology, Parental alienation syndrome, Physiognomy, Popular psychology, Pseudoscience, Radiesthesia, Reiki, Richard Lindzen, Robert Lomas, Scientific community metaphor, Space Foundation, Standard Oil, Transcendental Meditation, Truth, What the Bleep Do We Know!?, Whiteness studies


To be merged or split (updated by bot)

48 - Archimedes' screw, Autism (incidence), Blast furnace, Caput mortuum, Catasterismi, Classical planets, Coalbrookdale, Contact electrification, Contact tension, Creationism, Cyberpathy, Diagnostic kinesiology, Digital books, Duhem–Quine thesis, Early flight, Energy vampire, First flying machine, Four humours, Frequency of autism, Gender studies, H-index, H Index (life sciences), History of technology, Homeopathy, Human zoo, Humorism, Intragenomic conflict, Jeane Dixon effect, Meta-, Morse code, Naked eye planets, Old Furnace, Ironbridge, Ottawa Health Research Institute, PiHKAL, Positivism (philosophy), Psi ball, Psionics, Rail zeppelin, Research Station, Silvery River, Skyhook (concept), Social studies of finance, Stopping power, The Gutenberg Galaxy, Timeline of Fundamental Physics Discoveries, Unity of science, Vivisection and experimentation debate, Vulgarism








Related pages[edit]





Related pages


WikiProjects[edit]

Science WikiProject

Pseudoscience WikiProject
Years in science WikiProject (inactive)


History WikiProject
Biography (scientists)
Wikiproject Philosophy
WikiProject Translation Studies
Astrology WikiProject
WikiProject Bibliographies/Science task force

Portals[edit]

Science portal
History portal
Techology portal
Medicine portal
Philosophy of science portal
Scientific Method portal
Mind and Brain portal

Collaborations[edit]

Science COTW:
The current science collaboration of the month article is: Chemistry
Please help improve this article to featured article quality standards.

Last month's collaboration was Science in the Middle Ages.
To propose future collaborations, please contribute here!




v
t
e










Medicine COTW: Transverse myelitis
Biography COTW (inactive)








External sites[edit]





External sites



STS Wiki, a professional-oriented wiki on science and technology studies that coordinates improvement of Wikipedia content, especially poorly-covered STS content.







v
t
e


Wikipedia help pages










Visit the Teahouse if you are a new editor looking for interactive help, or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum.
Or ask for help on your talk page




Noticeboards (?)
FAQs (?)
Reference desks (?)
The Missing Manual (?)
Directories (?)








About Wikipedia



Administration
Principles (Wikipedia in brief)
Policies and guidelines
What Wikipedia is not
Disclaimer (parental advice)
Making requests

where to ask questions
contact Wikipedia directly


Who writes Wikipedia?
Why create an account?








Help for readers



FAQ
Books
Copyright
Glossary
Mobile access
Navigation
Other languages
Searching
Students
Viewing media








Contributing
to Wikipedia



A plain and simple overview
A primer for newcomers
Asking for help
Advice for young editors
Avoiding common mistakes
Etiquette (community expectations)
Learning the ropes
Instructional material
Simplified Manual of Style
Simplified rule-set

"Ignore all rules"
"The rules are principles"


Style-tips
Tip of the day
Task Center
Your first article (article wizard)
Vandalism








Getting started



Wikipedia intro
Wikipedia tutorial
The Wikipedia Adventure
Manual of Style intro
Graphics tutorials
Picture tutorial (Uploading intro)
IRC (live chat) tutorial
Navigating intro
Policies intro
Referencing intro
Tables intro
Talk pages intro
VisualEditor user guide








Dos and don'ts



Accessibility
Bio's
Categorization
Disambiguation
Images
Links
Lists
References
Tables
Talks








How-to pages and
information pages



Appealing blocks
Article deletion
Categories
Citations / references

Referencing for beginners
Citation Style 1
Cite errors
References and page numbers


Convert
Diff
Editing

toolbar
edit conflict


Email confirmation
Find sources
Files
Footnotes
Image deletion
Infoboxes
Linking (link color)
Logging in
Merging
Namespaces
Page name
Redirect
Renaming pages
Passwords
Reverting
Talk pages (archiving)
URL
User contributions
User page design center








Coding wiki markup



Wiki markup (cheatsheet)
Barcharts
Calculations
Characters
Citation templates
Columns
Hidden text
HTML
Lists
Magic words (introduction)
Music symbols
Sections
Sounds
Tables (introduction)
Templates

documentation
messages

cleanup messages




Transclusion
Visual files
Wiki tools








Directories



Abbreviations
Departments
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary
Guidelines
Help menu
Manual of Style
Policies
Shortcuts
Tips










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to











v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












v
t
e


 WikiProject Council






 WikiProject guides



WikiProject Council

Talk


Guidelines/Intro

WikiProjects
Task forces
Technical notes


Assessment FAQ
Work via WikiProjects








 Directories and summaries



Directory
Proposals
Signpost
Shortcuts
Popular pages
Database reports

New WikiProjects
Changes
Watchers










 Culture and the arts



Arts

Music
Performing
Plastic
Visual


Broadcasting
Crafts and hobbies
Entertainment

Games and toys


Food and drink
Internet culture
Language and literature

Biography
Linguistics


Media
Philosophy and religion
Sports








 Geographical



Bodies of water
Cities
Countries

Africa
Americas
Asia
Europe
Oceania


Landforms
Maps
Parks, conservation areas and historical sites








 History and society



History and society
Business and economics
Education
Military and warfare
Politics and government
Transportation








 Science, technology
and engineering



Science
Biology
Chemistry
Economics
Geosciences
Information science
Mathematics
Medicine
Meteorology
Physics
Space
Technology
Time








 Wikipedia assistance
and tasks



Contents systems
Maintenance
Files
Article improvement and grading
Classroom projects
WikiProjects














 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_History_of_Science&oldid=764570335"					
Categories: WikiProject History of Science 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


FrançaisNederlandsPortuguêsTürkçe 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 February 2017, at 18:03.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"1.312","walltime":"1.790","ppvisitednodes":{"value":28434,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":344438,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":113898,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":22,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":7,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  953.172      1 -total"," 51.90%  494.691      1 Wikipedia:Version_1.0_Editorial_Team/History_of_science_articles_by_quality_statistics"," 51.76%  493.391      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/Tables/Project/History_of_science"," 46.85%  446.527      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork"," 46.61%  444.309      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta"," 46.40%  442.243      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta/pri"," 26.23%  250.000      2 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ww"," 25.76%  245.518      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta/pri/1"," 25.45%  242.629      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta/1"," 19.43%  185.188      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/om"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.214","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":4841427,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1268","timestamp":"20170213092728","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":1900,"wgHostname":"mw1268"});});
