 






Wikipedia:WikiProject Woodworking

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




This WikiProject is believed to be inactive. If you are not currently a member of the project, please consider joining it to help. This tag may be removed if activity resumes, or if this tag has been placed in error.


Guide to WikiProjects
Directory of WikiProjects
Dealing with inactive WikiProjects
List of inactive WikiProjects





This wikiproject is about woodworking and any related subjects such as tools, carpentry, cabinet making, furniture, woodcarving



Contents


1 Goal
2 Scope
3 Related WikiProjects
4 Things to do

4.1 Article alerts
4.2 Bring in more participants
4.3 New articles needed


5 Statistics

5.1 Tools
5.2 Techniques
5.3 Joints
5.4 Manufacturers
5.5 Influential/famous woodworkers
5.6 Other
5.7 Stubs needing expansion

5.7.1 Tools
5.7.2 Techniques
5.7.3 Design & Styles
5.7.4 Furniture

5.7.4.1 Woodworkers


5.7.5 Architecture, Carpentry, Joinery, and Construction

5.7.5.1 Building types
5.7.5.2 Building elements, Joinery & millwork
5.7.5.3 Construction


5.7.6 Other


5.8 Articles needing expansion/improvement
5.9 Redirects/disambiguations needed


6 Request for deletion/comments/proposed merges
7 Requested articles
8 Project Participants

8.1 Active members
8.2 Inactive members
8.3 Project supporters


9 External links



Goal[edit]
To ensure that Wikipedia has as complete and accurate articles related to woodworking as possible.
Scope[edit]
This project is related to a number of topics, including metalworking (woodworkers use metal tools and often need some metalworking skills), architecture, construction, art (sculpture, wood carving), etc.
Related WikiProjects[edit]

WikiProject Architecture
WikiProject Forestry
WikiProject Metalworking

Things to do[edit]
Article alerts[edit]


Proposed deletions


08 Feb 2017 – Baileigh Industrial (talk · edit · hist) was PRODed by Duffbeerforme (t · c): Promotion from a shill. Not notable local business. Lacks sufficient coverage in multiple independent reliable sources.


Bring in more participants[edit]


WikiProject Woodworking
(Rated NA-class)
WoodworkingWikipedia:WikiProject WoodworkingTemplate:WikiProject WoodworkingWoodworking-related articles









v
t
e


This page is within the scope of WikiProject Woodworking, a collaborative effort to improve the coverage of Woodworking on Wikipedia. If you would like to participate, please visit the project page, where you can join the discussion and see a list of open tasks.



 NA 
This page does not require a rating on the quality scale.





 











Advertise the project and hopefully bring in more participants by adding the {{WikiProject Woodworking}} template (as above) at the top of the talk page of relevant articles. This template creates a box at the top of the page advertising the existence of this project.
Text to use at the top of article talk pages is:-
{{WikiProject Woodworking}}

The article's quality class and importance to the project can be added to this template (but don't have to be) by adding either or both of the following to the template:
{{WikiProject Woodworking|class=<class>|importance=<importance>}}
The official classes are "FA", "A", "GA", "B", "Start", "Stub", and "NA". See Assessment for more details. Official importance ratings for this project have not been decided; however, other projects commonly use "top", "high", "mid", and "low".

Suggested Edit summary (This is here so that a quick cut and paste does the job, no stress involved):
Template for Wikiproject {{WikiProject Woodworking}}
If the article is also metalworking related then add the following:
{{WikiProject Woodworking}} {{WikiProject Metalworking}}
perhaps reorder it depending on the articles focus.
{{WikiProject Metalworking}} {{WikiProject Woodworking}}
Once again a suggested Cut'nPaste Edit summary:
Template for Wikiproject {{WikiProject Woodworking}} {{WikiProject Metalworking}}
Also, if you participate in woodworking forums on the web, you might want to announce the existence of the project.
New articles needed[edit]
Please add any woodworking articles you believe are needed. Please remove blue links after you have checked them out and add to Stubs needing expansion below if needed. If all you create is a stub, please add the Woodworking stub notification at the bottom of the article ({{Woodworking-stub}}), which will automatically put the article in the Category:Woodworking stubs.
Before adding an article, please search under various possible names. If the article already exists under another name, please create a redirect and mention the new name in the opening paragraph of the existing article. On many woodworking topics, names of things and techniques vary considerably by continent/country/region and generation.
I would say in recent years wooden flooring really have got very popularity in market. Although wooden flooring has its own benefits for installing it into according to your comfort areas. As we know wooden flooring are made up of multi layers of different woods and they react differently in environment. Most important it's Eco-friendly cheaper along with durability and it can be sold out twice in market. Hence we can say wooden flooring can be best one option rather on installing carpet. There are different types of wooden flooring avail in market. To know more about to wooden flooring type you can visit here - Types of wooden flooring. Thank You.
Statistics[edit]


Woodworking-related articles by quality and importance


Quality
Importance


Top
High
Mid
Low
NA
???
Total


 GA



2


2


B
6
8
10
6


30


C
3
8
13
7

2
33


Start
5
16
45
83
1
65
215


Stub

5
19
64
4
53
145


List

3
1
7


11


NA



1
49

50


Assessed
14
40
88
170
54
120
486


Unassessed





42
42


Total
14
40
88
170
54
162
528


The table is automatically updated every few days; click here to update immediately.
Tools[edit]

Clamp (can't have too many)

possibly articles on different types of clamps C-clamp, F-clamp, G-clamp (has a redirect to C-Clamp), Bar clamp, Mitre clamp, Sash clamp, Band clamp








This page needs serious attention. I think it needs a disambiguation page to get rid of the dross like CRAMP (something to do with Japanese animation) and some of the other stuff. Here's what I propose to do when I have time: 1) Move Clamp to Clamp (tool) 2) Move CLAMP to Clamp (Japanese animation) 3) Create a disambiguation page called Clamp which will link to the above and mention the other meanings. Then on the Clamp (tool) page, expand the types of clamp and have links to individual articles that exist if they are worth keeping, otherwise merge them. The use of the term Cramp can be an aka at the top and perhaps a brief discussion of where it is used in the body of the article. That will be a start. SilentC 05:45, 4 October 2005 (UTC)

Makes sense. Go for it. I put in the picture so that we can figure out what each type is called in different countries. Luigizanasi 05:58, 5 October 2005 (UTC)














It's a late reply, but CLAMP has recently been moved to Clamp (manga artists) now, with the all-caps variant changed into a redirect to Clamp, after all related articles had been fixed. This should clean things up a bit. - Cyrus XIII 05:49, 1 March 2007 (UTC)







*Combination machine European machines (Griggio, Kity, etc.) & Shopsmith

Cross-peen hammer or Warrington hammer
Holdfast (tool) or Hold fast
Lathes

possibly broken out by size/capacity - mini-lathe, midi-lathe, full-size lathe and specialty lathes
Woodturning Tools - another large topic

Skew Chisels
Spindle / Shallow Flute / Detail Gouges
Parting Tools
Specialty Tools for Spindle turning - Beading Tools, Tri-point Tools, etc.
Bowl / Deep Flute Gouges




Moisture meter - some info at Moisture content maybe need article on moisture & wood (maybe an article about Wood moisture equivelant, aka WME, too).
Panel saw
Missing planes

Moulding plane or Molding plane, Chisel plane, Finger plane, Bullnose plane, Combination plane, Circular plane
Rebate plane or Rabbet plane or Carriage-maker's plane (i.e. bench plane with open sides) — currently redirects to Shoulder plane
Scraper plane


Router bit

Straight bit,Round over,Cove bit,Roman Ogee,Double ogee,Core box bit,Flush trim bit,Panel raising bit,Keyhole bit,Rabbeting bit,Wing cutter,Chamfering bit,Beading cutter,Lock miter and other joint cutting bits,Dovetail bit,


Sanders

Belt sander, Palm sander, Disc sander (article needs to be extended), Stroke sander, Random orbital sander


Scroll Saw
Shooting board
Tenoner or Tenoning machine
Veneer saw
Veneer hammer
Waterstone and Oil stone, possibly as part of Whetstone (tool) or better yet, merge all into a Sharpening stone article that would also describe the techniques. (provided article on Japanese waterstones under "Waterstone". Grindstone (tool) also exists, but more in the context of early caveman type uses.


Have started on the Sharpening stone article.SilentC 03:02, 14 September 2005 (UTC)

Techniques[edit]

Scary sharp
Wood finishing page started.
Woodturning - a VERY broad topic

Spindle Turning - including furniture turning
"Faceplate" Turning - including bowl turning, boxes and others


Sharpening - could move stuff from Woodworking and Knife articles
Hide glue - & references in Glue article
Drilling and threading#Drilling in wood — needs a woodworking section
Edge joining - an editor created this red link in the Edge jointing article, obviously felt it needed explaining. Not sure there's enough to warrant an article but can't think where else to put it.
Intarsia
Fretwork
Bending (woodworking) – I am particularly in the archaeological context as pertaining to bows, etc., but there doesn't seem to be any article on bending techniques whether ancient or modern. Aliases: Bending wood, Wood bending. Compare Bending (metalworking).

Joints[edit]

Bridle joint
Halved joint
Dovetail joint
Butt joint
Half-lap joint
Hammer-headed tenon
Cog joint

Manufacturers[edit]
Note that Stanley Works and Craftsman (tools), Delta Machinery, Black and Decker, Robert Bosch GmbH, Lee Valley Tools, Milwaukee Tools, Lie-Nielsen already have articles (that need expansion).

Triton (Australia)
General Tools (Canada)
Porter-Cable (Division of Black and Decker)
Lamello
DeWalt Tools (Division of Black and Decker)
Skil (Division of Robert Bosch GmbH)
Makita


I have started a list article at Woodworking tools manufacturers. Comments, additions, re-formatting welcome. Luigizanasi 21:35, 10 February 2006 (UTC)

Influential/famous woodworkers[edit]

Norm Abram - host of popular woodworking show "The New Yankee Workshop" previously seen on "This Old House" has introduced many amateur woodworkers to woodworking.
Marc Adams
Chris Becksvoort
Mike Dunbar
Garret Hack
Rob Cosman
Jim Kingshott
Thomas Moser
Patrick Spielman - prolific author of mainly woodworking & other craft books
Sam Maloof Article started.
André Jacob Roubo - French cabinetmaker, designer and author of a 16 volume treatise on many aspects of woodworking in the 18th Century. Article started.

Other[edit]

Fine Woodworking Magazine
rec.woodworking
Woodworking terms (especially with equivalent North American/British synonyms)
Wood grain or Wood figure discussing grain (flat vs quarter-sawn), figure (roe, bird's eye, flame, etc.) started, now stub.
List of woodworking tool museums including museums with extensive tool collections even if not the focus

Stubs needing expansion[edit]
Some may already be more than stubs. If so, please remove them from the list and add them to Wikipedia:Wikiproject Woodworking#Articles needing expansion/improvement if needed. Also add any articles you see need to be here. This list was originally generated by going through Category:Woodworking stubs, Category:Tool stubs, Category:Furniture stubs, and Category:Architecture stubs and culling non-woodworking related articles. No doubt mistakes were made: some do not belong here, while others are missing.
Tools[edit]
Angle grinder Ball-peen hammer Bench grinder Block plane Bolt cutters Bucksaw Card scraper Burin Carpentry square Clinometer Concrete saw Coping saw Craftsman (tools) Milling cutter Dial (measurement) Digging stick Dozuki Drift pin Drill bit sizes Froe Gauge (engineering) Gouge Hacksaw Hammer drill High speed steel Jack plane Japanese saw Keyhole saw Lathe carrier Mallet Nail gun Nipper (tool) Pencil lead Penetrating oil Persian drill Pneumatic motor Pneumatic tool Power tool Pulaski (tool) Pycnometer Robertson screwdriver Rotary tool Sander Sawhorse Scroll saw Shaper Sharpening jig Shears[disambiguation needed] Sledgehammer Snap-on Socket wrench Staple knocker Staple remover Surface plate Tension wrench Tester Thermal lance Tipped tool Tweezers Two-man saw Type S Fastener Upholstery hammer Webbing stretcher Whetstone (tool) Woodchipper Workbench Workshop Yardstick Hook ladder
Techniques[edit]
Balloon framing Bentwood Crotch Cruck Datum references Degree of curvature Dowel joint Finger joint Finial Glazing Hinge Inlay Intarsia Lap joint Making fire Marking out Miter joint Nut (hardware) Ogee Optus Oval Organic architecture Rabbet Rip cut Stile Tongue and groove Tracery Two-by-four technology Upholstery regulator Wood grain
Design & Styles[edit]
Adam style Architectural style Annulet (architecture) Boiserie Chintz Colonial Revival Cordonata Deconstructivism Eastlake Movement Empire (style) Federal architecture Flèche Futurist architecture Greek revival architecture Hexastyle List of house styles Meander (art) Mid-century modern Mission Revival Style architecture Prairie School Romanesque Revival Round table Shaker furniture Decorative arts
Furniture[edit]
Balloon clock Bar (counter) Bookend Breadbox Brewster Chair Bunk bed Cabinet (furniture) Campaign furniture Candlestick Cantilever chair Chest (furniture) Chest of drawers Coffee table Commode Cot (furniture) Cupboard Davenport (sofa) Deckchair Filing cabinet Four poster bed Garderobe Glastonbury chair Great Bed of Ware Headboard (furniture) Kneeling chair Library circulation desk Loveseat Murphy bed Nightstand No. 14 chair Ottoman (furniture) Park furniture Picnic table Playpen Shoji Taboret Tallboy (furniture) Tin box Trundle bed Tunbridge ware TV tray egyptian furniture
the page on wood veneer references egyptian furniture as two words. this link may be more useful http://woodprojectsthatsell.com
Woodworkers[edit]
James Krenov Alan Peters Duncan Phyfe
Architecture, Carpentry, Joinery, and Construction[edit]
Building types[edit]
Attap dwelling Beach hut Conservatory (greenhouse) Doghouse Footbridge Gristmill Guest house Hooch (shelter) Hut (dwelling) Icehouse (building) Lake dwelling Lean-to Model house Octagon house Palisade Prairie Houses Prefabricated home Railroad apartment Ranch (house) Shed Single-family home Stable Steeple (architecture) Stilt house Stockade Tithe barn Toran Torana Tract housing
Building elements, Joinery & millwork[edit]
Bandstand Bay window Angel-light Bedroom Boudoir Castellum Catherine wheel (window) Cornice (architecture) Crenel Crocket Crown molding Dado rail Dado (joinery) Dormer Dovecote Eaves Drawing room Entasis Entrance Flooring French door Gabion Gable Gadroon Hurricane shutters Lintel Living room Loft Mansard Master bedroom Mullion Murder-hole Oriel window Oubliette Palladian window Paned window Panelling Parterre Passage (architecture) Plinth Porch Postern Punnet Rafter Handrail Raised flooring Raking cornice Recreation room Red River Frame Refectory Shake (roof) Siding Soffit Stairway Study (room) Trellis (architecture) Tribune (architecture) Verandah Vestry Volute Weep hole Window covering Window shutter
Construction[edit]
Barricade Braced wall line Bulkhead (barrier) Clapboard (architecture) Compass (architecture) Curtain wall Curtainwall Dead load Falsework Farm jack Floor plan Folly Formwork Framer Frontage Frontispiece (architecture) Gueridon Housing society Insulated glazing Joist Laminated veneer lumber Live load Mole (architecture) PEX Pine pylon Post and lintel Post mill Prefabrication Sexpartite rib vault Span (architecture) Spatial planning Steelcase Structural design Structural failure Tie (engineering) Treated lumber Vinyl siding Water damage
Other[edit]
Artificial leather Briquette Chickee Fingerplate Knotted pine (or knotty pine) Lid (container) Lobster trap Pressed wood Sawdust Shikumen Shinden-zukuri Staff (stick) Stanley Works Star post Talking stick Toothpick Truckle Vernis Martin Walking stick
Articles needing expansion/improvement[edit]
With explanation of requirements

Drill bit Get up to Featured List status (95% there). Ksenon 05:33, 5 February 2006 (UTC)
Joinery terms I suspect the page may end up being a candidate for the dictionary. I was thinking of adding illustrations but at the end of the day, it's really just a glossary. I suppose it could be expanded into a more detailed look at some of the common joint making concepts or merged with woodworking joints. I just needed somewhere to explain what a cheek and a shoulder are in joinery terms. Not convinced I've done a brilliant job of that either. SilentC 23:04, 6 October 2005 (UTC)
Nu-Wood Decorative Millwork ancient Millwork article went a few years without an edit until it hit the top of Ancientpages this summer, perhaps this project can adopt it. --Cloveious 05:24, 2 October 2005 (UTC)

Nu wood is just one of many manufacturers of urethane decorative mouldings. I don't know what to do about the page, it is probably a vanity company page. Luigizanasi 06:08, 5 October 2005 (UTC)

Perhaps the article itself is borderline vanity, but it does have a detailed account of the Manufacturing process perhaps that section can be transplanted to a more appropriate article? --Cloveious 07:36, 5 October 2005 (UTC)




Sandpaper - need description of grits (P & American), types of abrasive (Garnet, aluminium oxide, etc.), weigh of backing paper or cloth (A,B,C,D,), etc. (This was requested on talk page)
List of woods Add tropical woods from USFPL book & missing Australian timbers
Drill - in pretty sad shape. Needs serious rewrite, needs descriptions of gimlet, brace, eggbeater, hand-held electric drills, drill press, etc.

I started on a rewrite, but considerable work still needs to be done. Luigizanasi 06:21, 9 September 2005 (UTC)

Much improved could still use a bit of work.




Keyhole saw - currently only describes the short straight-handled drywall saw, needs to talk about keyhole or compass saw.
Panel saw - needs work. A bit limited to full-scale panel production. They use them in joineries too and there are smaller ones available for hobbyists/small shops.
Spindle speed - was a hard-to-read stub, and had been listed on articles needing cleanup for quite some time, so User:Graibeard at Wikipedia:WikiProject Metalworking decided to put together a completely new article. He needs help from someone with more woodworking experience. Mostly done by Luigizanasi, but still needs stuff on shaper/spindle moulder from someone more experienced and knowldgeable of that machine. — Discuss Spindle speed
Wood finishing - <needs discussion of merits of different finishes.
Woodworking machinery - had a bit of a stab at this but it needs a lot more work. Looks like it was set up by someone in the machinery manufacturing biz and is not much more than a bunch of links to associations and exhibitions plus a list of machines that they produce. SilentC 03:14, 13 September 2005 (UTC)
Wood carving is mainly a cut and paste from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica (savage races, anyone). Has been listed for clean-up for a while. Some people have requested more pictures. Luigizanasi 06:09, 13 September 2005 (UTC)

Split off history section to History of Wood carving. Added 5 pictures, 3 sections and rewrote some of what was left on Wood carving. —  KaiserB 23:01, 11 December 2005 (UTC)


History of Wood carving - needs clean-up & wikification. —  KaiserB 23:01, 11 December 2005 (UTC)
Waterstone - needs clean-up & wikification.Luigizanasi 17:02, 13 September 2005 (UTC) Moved to

Sharpening stone, with discussion of oil stones.

Combination machine needs discussion of Shopsmith (I added some basic ShopSmith info - should there be more on history/current offerings? R. Weber)


Mortiser needs work. Two main beefs with it - it suggests that the router was used to produce mortices before the morticer was invented, problem with that being that the router is a 20th-century invention and the article states on the very next line that the morticer was invented in 1800's. Also suggests a tablesaw could be used to cut a mortice, not sure how. Other beef is it suggests that only the most experienced woodworker could cut a mortice by hand, which is not true either. Put it here because I don't have time at the moment and didn't want to forget. Will do later if someone doesn't beat me to it. SilentC 04:01, 29 November 2005 (UTC)

Did some clean-up and reorganizing.Luigizanasi 22:10, 10 March 2006 (UTC)




Woodworking Chisel section needs expansion, different types of chisels (bevel edge, firmer, mortising, carving, etc.) as well as description of uses in paring and chopping. Luigizanasi 16:04, 29 November 2005 (UTC)
Mortise and tenon needs expansion, better and more description of types of tenons, names of tenon parts (e.g. cheek), etc. Luigizanasi 22:06, 5 August 2006 (UTC)


Wood stain needs a lot of work. References needed badly. Also it's not yet recognised as a wood-working article.I am a lemon 23:40, 13 August 2007 (UTC)


Wainwright, Cartwright, wagonwright, are closely related and none have more than a definition. Jim Derby (talk) 21:12, 19 January 2013 (UTC)


Coachbuilder is related to wainwright, the existing article needs a history. Jim Derby (talk) 21:12, 19 January 2013 (UTC)


Suggestions are set forth in Talk:Saw to improve the Saw page. Zengrain (talk) 10:35, 5 July 2012 (UTC)

Redirects/disambiguations needed[edit]
Names and terms for woodworking tools and techniques vary considerably by continent, country, region, and generation. There is considerable confusion between British/North American/Australian terms, not to speak of historical differences and regional differences within each country. The goal is to ensure that all terms are represented, so that anyone who comes across a term can find what they are looking for in Wikipedia. All woodworking terms should at least have a redirect to the appropriate article, and alternative names should be mentioned at the beginning of each article.
Especially for confusion between British/North American/Australian terms, e.g.

Wood shaper (US/Canada)/Spindle moulder(UK)
Overarm router (US/Canada)/Wood Shaper(UK)
Finger joint/Box-combing
Joinery as woodworking joints (US/Canada) vs Joinery and Joiner as finish carpentry (UK) - done
Tenon saw and Backsaw (possible merge) - done

Request for deletion/comments/proposed merges[edit]
Please list here any woodoworking-related articles you happen to come across that have been listed for deletion on Wikipedia:Articles for deletion or Wikipedia:Categories for deletion, and for comments on Wikipedia:Requests for comment/Maths, natural science, and technology.

Template for discussion: Template:Types of tools - Wikipedia:Templates for discussion/Log/2013 October 22.


It has been suggested that Pyrography be merged with Wood burning. Merged
Lee Valley Tools up for deletion, claimed as advertisement. Vote or comment at: Wikipedia:Articles for deletion/Lee Valley Toolsunanimous decision to keep article.
It has been suggested that Diamond plate and Whetstone (tool) be merged into Sharpening stone. Discuss at Talk:Sharpening stone. Articles have been merged
Masonite and Hardboard suggested merge. consensus not to merge


Proposed merger of Lumber, Timber, and Dimensional lumber. done


Someone requested a move of Rebate (marketing) to Rebate. This over wrote a disambiguation page I created to give the other definition of Rebate, which is the same as Rabbet. I have requested the move be reverted on the talk:Rebate page. If you agree with this, could you indicate your support on that page? SilentC 00:08, 30 January 2006 (UTC) consensus to reverse and have separate DAB page.

*Proposed deletion of Tarq Joinery. I put it up for deletion, seems to be a hoax. Luigizanasi 07:14, 11 March 2006 (UTC)

Proposed merge of Spirit level and Spirit leveling.
Proposed merge of File (metalwork) and File (tool). Done
Proposed merge of plumb bob and plumb line
Proposed merge of Sawdoctor into Sawfiler (discussion)
dispute over definition and PoV check requested over at reciprocating saw
Discussion over whether glossaries should be removed from Wikipedia and moved over to Wiktionary at Wikipedia_talk:What_Wikipedia_is_not#Glossaries. It all started at Talk:Woodworking glossary.
Proposed merge of Bar clamp and F-clamp.
Discussion on the "joinery stub" at Wikipedia:WikiProject_Stub_sorting/Proposals#Joinery_Stubs
Proposed merge of boiserie and wainscoting into panelling
Lie-Nielsen Toolworks, while not up for AfD yet, had been tagged as not meeting notability guidelines. A bit more detail, and some references, would fix it. Possible source of material and a reference could be F&C issue 63 feature, linked off the LN website. No way should this one even be considered for deletion! Carre 11:58, 20 July 2007 (UTC)


I made a start - stuck a load of references in, and expanded a fair amount. Still needs work though. Carre 14:30, 20 July 2007 (UTC)


Suggestion that Shake (shingle) be merged into Wood shingle.
Proposed merge of Saw tooth setter into Saw set. These articles are describing the same tool function in the process of setting saw teeth to form a kerf. The term 'Saw Set' applies to most tools that could be used in the process. The article saw set will also be updated with several types of saw sets, additional information on Saw Sets will also be added. Discussion on Talk:Saw tooth setter. Zengrain (talk) 09:00, 5 July 2012 (UTC)

Requested articles[edit]
From Wikipedia:Requested articles/Applied arts and sciences

Moisture meter
Tiger Maple
Birdseye Maple

I got here looking for information of the following wood finishing/refinishing techniques:

Liming
Pickling
Bleaching

These are not obscure and should really be included. Zlama (talk) 06:04, 12 November 2011 (UTC)
 Project Participants[edit]
Active members[edit]

Luigizanasi (talk · contribs) — this WikiProject's founder
Andy_Dingley (talk · contribs) Hi Luigi! Another wrecker 8-)
Carders (talk · contribs)
Dstarrmittersil (talk · contribs) An amateur from the wreck.
Erlyrisa (talk · contribs) I'll try to help within my scope.
Just_plain_Bill (talk · contribs) looks in from time to time.
Ksenon (talk · contribs) I'll try to add what I can.
Les733 (talk · contribs) I have been adopted earlier in the year, and wrote my first article on casework, all I know is that I help draw up casework details and drawings for work at an architecture firm, let me know how I can help!
Mikhailov Kusserow (talk · contribs)
MrErku (talk · contribs) I'm no expert, but I will help where I can: down with systemic bias!
Pjbflynn (talk · contribs) Shipwright, novice metalworker, newbie Wikipedian, sailing ship Captain (really!).
ThuranX (talk · contribs) I kibbitz on a number of issues, and erstwhile grammar police.
VartanM (talk · contribs) I'll try to help with grammar and sourcing.
BoundaryRider (talk · contribs) beginner in woodwork, but long-time Wikipedestrian and fanatical cross-referee
Zengrain (talk · contribs) Hand tool enthusiast, amateur woodworker
Jim Derby (talk · contribs) I study historic carpentry and traditional building methods mostly in the northern hemisphere as much as the internet and English language will allow. So much to do and so little time!
Alexbateman (talk · contribs) Slowly assessing articles for this WikiProject.

Inactive members[edit]

Boinger
SilentC (talk · contribs)

Project supporters[edit]

Graibeard — a sympathiser from WikiProject Metalworking

External links[edit]

Wikiproject Watchlist - WikiProject Woodworking




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:WikiProject_Woodworking&oldid=757394405"					
Categories: Inactive WikiProjectsWikiProject WoodworkingTechnology WikiProjects 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 30 December 2016, at 12:32.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.580","walltime":"0.741","ppvisitednodes":{"value":10892,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":51927,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":40240,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  485.156      1 -total"," 59.10%  286.720      1 Wikipedia:Version_1.0_Editorial_Team/Woodworking-related_articles_by_quality_statistics"," 58.82%  285.348      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/Tables/Project/Woodworking-related"," 50.73%  246.120      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork"," 50.34%  244.207      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta"," 49.76%  241.401      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ta/pri"," 49.42%  239.753      1 User:WP_1.0_bot/WikiWork/ww"," 18.24%   88.516      1 Template:WikiProject_Woodworking"," 17.96%   87.154      1 Template:WPBannerMeta"," 15.25%   73.978      1 Template:WPBannerMeta/core"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.057","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2987948,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1173","timestamp":"20170213014053","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":75,"wgHostname":"mw1183"});});
