 






Clean technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Main article: Environmental technology
Clean technology refers to any process, product, or service that reduces negative environmental impacts through significant energy efficiency improvements, the sustainable use of resources, or environmental protection activities. Clean technology includes a broad range of technology related to recycling, renewable energy (wind power, solar power, biomass, hydropower, biofuels, etc.), information technology, green transportation, electric motors, green chemistry, lighting, Greywater, and more. Environmental finance is a method by which new clean technology projects that have proven that they are "additional" or "beyond business as usual" can obtain financing through the generation of carbon credits. A project that is developed with concern for climate change mitigation (such as a Kyoto Clean Development Mechanism project) is also known as a carbon project.
While there is no standard definition of "clean technology," it has been described by Clean Edge, a clean technology research firm, as "a diverse range of products, services, and processes that harness renewable materials and energy sources, dramatically reduce the use of natural resources, and cut or eliminate emissions and wastes." It notes that "Clean technologies are competitive with, if not superior to, their conventional counterparts. Many also offer significant additional benefits, notably their ability to improve the lives of those in both developed and developing countries".
Investments in clean technology have grown considerably since coming into the spotlight around 2000. According to the United Nations Environment Program, wind, solar, and biofuel companies received a record $148 billion in new funding in 2007 as rising oil prices and climate change policies encouraged investment in renewable energy. $50 billion of that funding went to wind power. Overall, investment in clean-energy and energy-efficiency industries rose 60 percent from 2006 to 2007.[1] By 2018 it is forecast that the three main clean technology sectors, solar photovoltaics, wind power, and biofuels, will have revenues of $325.1bn.[2]



Contents


1 Definition
2 Origins of the concept
3 Investment worldwide
4 See also
5 References
6 External links



Definition[edit]
Cleantech is an industry term used to describe products or services that improve operational performance, productivity, or efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, energy consumption, waste, or environmental pollution. Its origin is the increased consumer, regulatory, and industry interest in clean forms of energy generation—specifically, perhaps, the rise in awareness of global warming, climate change, and the impact on the natural environment from the burning of fossil fuels. Cleantech is often associated with venture capital funds and land use organizations.
Origins of the concept[edit]
The idea of cleantech first emerged among a group of emerging technologies and industries, based on principles of biology, resource efficiency, and second-generation production concepts in basic industries. Examples include: energy efficiency, selective catalytic reduction, non-toxic materials, water purification, solar energy, wind energy, and new paradigms in energy conservation. Since the 1990s, interest in these technologies has increased with two trends: a decline in the relative cost of these technologies and a growing understanding of the link between industrial design used in the 19th century and early 20th century, such as fossil fuel power plants, the internal combustion engine, and chemical manufacturing, and an emerging understanding of human-caused impact on earth systems resulting from their use (see articles: ozone hole, acid rain, desertification, climate change and global warming).
Investment worldwide[edit]

Annual Cleantech Investment in North America, Europe, Israel, China, & India

Year
Investment ($mil)


2001
506.8


2002
883.2


2003
1,258.6


2004
1,398.3


2005
2,077.5


2006
4,520.2


2007
6,087.2


2008*
8,414.3


*2008 data preliminary


Source: Cleantech Group[3]


In 2008, clean technology venture investments in North America, Europe, China, and India totaled a record $8.4 billion. Cleantech Venture Capital firms include NTEC, Cleantech Ventures, and Foundation Capital. The preliminary 2008 total represents the seventh consecutive year of growth in venture investing, widely recognized as a leading indicator of overall investment patterns.[4] China is seen as a major growth market for cleantech investments currently, with a focus on renewable energy technologies.[5] In 2014, Israel, Finland and the US were leading the Global Cleantech Innovation Index, out of 40 countries assessed, while Russia and Greece were last.[6] With regards to private investments, the investment group Element 8 has received the 2014 CleanTech Achievement award from the CleanTech Alliance, a trade association focused on clean tech in the State of Washington, for its contribution in Whashington State's cleantech industry. [7]
According to the published research, the top clean technology sectors in 2008 were solar, biofuels, transportation, and wind. Solar accounted for almost 40% of total clean technology investment dollars in 2008, followed by biofuels at 11%.
The 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen, Denmark was expected to create a framework whereby limits would eventually be placed on greenhouse gas emissions. Many proponents of the cleantech industry hoped for an agreement to be established there to replace the Kyoto Protocol. As this treaty was expected, scholars had suggested a profound and inevitable shift from "business as usual."[8] However, the participating States failed to provide a global framework for clean technologies. The outburst of the 2008 economic crisis then hampered private investments in clean technologies, which were back at their 2007 level only in 2014. The 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Paris is expected to achieve a universal agreement on climate, which would foster clean technologies development. [9]
See also[edit]

Environmental science
Green chemistry
Renewable energy commercialization
Sustainable engineering

References[edit]


^ [1][dead link]
^ [2][dead link]
^ "Insights - CCgroup". Ccgrouppr.com. Retrieved 2016-12-29. 
^ "Clean technology venture investment reaches record $8.4 billion in 2008 despite credit crisis and broadening recession". Cleantech Group. 2009-01-09. Retrieved 2009-03-23. 
^ Caprotti F (2009). "China's Cleantech Landscape: The Renewable Energy Technology Paradox" (PDF). Sustainable Development Law & Policy. pp. 6–10. 
^ "Israel, Finland and the US top the Global Cleantech Innovation Index 2014 | FPA Patent Attorneys". JDSupra.com. 2014-11-13. Retrieved 2016-12-29. 
^ "Element 8 Wins 2014 CleanTech Achievement Award". Finance.yahoo.com. 2014-11-12. Retrieved 2016-12-29. 
^ "Climate Change Congress". University of Copenhagen. 2009-12-03. 
^ "European Cleantech Innovation: 13 Future Energy System Gamechangers". Cleantechnica.com. 2014-11-12. Retrieved 2016-12-29. 


External links[edit]

Investing: Green technology has big growth potential, LA Times, 2011
Bloomberg New Energy Finance resource center, white papers, industry figures and facts







v
t
e


Environmental technology









Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology











Pollution



Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)








Renewable energy



Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)








Conservation



Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Clean_technology&oldid=760238594"					
Categories: Economics of sustainabilityEnvironmental technologyHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2016 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschEestiFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaעבריתNederlandsSuomi 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 15 January 2017, at 20:14.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":53,"wgHostname":"mw1273"});});
