 






Environmental technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"Envirotech" redirects here. For the Singapore-based company, see United Envirotech. For the California-based company, see Envirotech (company).




CleanTech






Sustainable urban design and innovation: Photovoltaic ombrière SUDI is an autonomous and mobile station that replenishes energy for electric vehicles using solar energy.


Environmental technology (envirotech), green technology (greentech) or clean technology (cleantech) is the application of one or more of environmental science, green chemistry, environmental monitoring and electronic devices to monitor, model and conserve the natural environment and resources, and to curb the negative impacts of human involvement. The term is also used to describe sustainable energy generation technologies such as photovoltaics, wind turbines, bioreactors, etc. Sustainable development is the core of environmental technologies. The term environmental technologies is also used to describe a class of electronic devices that can promote sustainable management of resources.



Contents


1 Examples

1.1 Renewable energy
1.2 Water purification
1.3 Air purification
1.4 Sewage treatment
1.5 Environmental remediation
1.6 Solid waste management
1.7 eGain forecasting
1.8 Energy conservation


2 Alternative and clean power
3 Education
4 See also
5 References
6 Further reading
7 External links



Examples[edit]


Biofiltration
Bioreactor
Bioremediation
Desalination
Doubly fed electric machine
Energy conservation
Energy saving modules
Electric vehicles
Wave energy
Green computing
Hydroelectricity
Wind power
Wind turbine
Hydrogen fuel cell
Ocean thermal energy conversion
Solar power
Photovoltaic
Thermal depolymerization
Composting toilet
Pyrolysis


Main article: Recycling
Renewable energy[edit]




A view across a reverse osmosis desalination plant in Nepal.


Renewable energy is the energy that can be replenished easily. For years we have been using sources like wood, sun, water, etc. for means for producing energy. Energy that can be produced by natural objects like wood, sun, wind, etc. is considered to be renewable.
Water purification[edit]
Water purification: The whole idea/concept of having dirt/germ/pollution free water flowing throughout the environment. Many other phenomena lead from this concept of purification of water. Water pollution is the main enemy of this concept, and various campaigns and activists have been organized around the world to help purify water.[1]
Air purification[edit]
Air purification: Basic and common green plants can be grown indoors to keep air fresh because all plants remove CO2 and convert it into oxygen. The best examples are: Dypsis lutescens, Sansevieria trifasciata, and Epipremnum aureum.[2]
Sewage treatment[edit]
Sewage treatment is conceptually similar to water purification. Sewage treatments are very important as they purify water per levels of its pollution. The most polluted water is not used for anything, and the least polluted water is supplied to places where water is used affluently. It may lead to various other concepts of environmental protection, sustainability etc.[3]
Environmental remediation[edit]
Environmental remediation is the removal of pollutants or contaminants for the general protection of the environment. This is accomplished by various chemical, biological, and bulk movements. (encyclopedia of medical concepts)[4]
Solid waste management[edit]




Net Zero Court zero emissions office building prototype in St. Louis, Missouri


Solid waste management is the purification, consumption, reuse, disposal and treatment of solid waste that is undertaken by the government or the ruling bodies of a city/town.[5]
eGain forecasting[edit]
Egain forecasting is a method using forecasting technology to predict the future weather's impact on a building.[6] By adjusting the heat based on the weather forecast, the system eliminates redundant use of heat, thus reducing the energy consumption and the emission of greenhouse gases.[7]
Energy conservation[edit]
Energy conservation is the utilization of devices that require smaller amounts of energy in order to reduce the consumption of electricity. Reducing the use of electricity causes less fossil fuels to be burned to provide that electricity.
Alternative and clean power[edit]




The Tesla Roadster was the first all-electric sports car for sale and in serial production. It can be plugged into conventional outlets and can be charged fully or partially on renewable energy, including solar, hydroelectric, geothermal or wind power.


Principles:

Green syndicalism
Sustainability
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering

Scientists continue to search for clean energy alternatives to our current power production methods. Some technologies such as anaerobic digestion produce renewable energy from waste materials. The global reduction of greenhouse gases is dependent on the adoption of energy conservation technologies at industrial level as well as this clean energy generation. That includes using unleaded gasoline, solar energy and alternative fuel vehicles, including plug-in hybrid and hybrid electric vehicles.
Since industrial use of energy accounts for 51% of worldwide energy usage[8] improving energy efficiency in this field is a top priority for environmental technology companies around the globe. Advanced energy efficient electric motor (and electric generator) technology that are cost effective to encourage their application, such as the brushless wound-rotor doubly fed electric machine and energy saving module, can reduce the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) that would otherwise be introduced to the atmosphere, if electricity is generated using fossil fuels. Greasestock is an event held yearly in Yorktown Heights, New York which is one of the largest showcases of environmental technology in the United States.[9][10][11][12][13]

there are more chemical formula like this, for example reaction on water in nitric acid
there are things made on heat process like iron, steel, zinc etc., it also may be reversed making things on freezing or cooling process, like cement and water reaction make strong chemical molecules, or glue or super glue on heat they do not melt, but iron, steel and zinc melt on heat, so super glue like chemical formula with more chemical work will be so strong if it will be processed from high cool temperature (minus temperature)
[14]
Education[edit]
Courses aimed at developing graduates with specific skills in environmental systems or environmental technology are becoming more common and fall into three broads classes:

Environmental Engineering or Environmental Systems courses oriented towards a civil engineering approach in which structures and the landscape are constructed to blend with or protect the environment;
Environmental chemistry, sustainable chemistry or environmental chemical engineering courses oriented towards understanding the effects (good and bad) of chemicals in the environment. Such awards can focus on mining processes, pollutants and commonly also cover biochemical processes;
Environmental technology courses oriented towards producing electronic, electrical or electrotechnology graduates capable of developing devices and artefacts able to monitor, measure, model and control environmental impact, including monitoring and managing energy generation from renewable sources, and developing novel energy generation technologies.

See also[edit]


Sustainable Development portal
Environment portal
Earth sciences portal
Ecology portal



Appropriate technology
Groasis Waterboxx
The All-Earth Ecobot Challenge
Pulser Pump
Environmentally friendly
Sustainable living
Sustainable energy
Sustainable design


References[edit]


^ Recycling”. Retrieved June 15th, 2009. http://earth911.com/recycling/. “Recycle.gif”. Retrieved June 15th, 2009. http://library.uwf.edu/recycle_logo.gif “What is Water Purification”. Retrieved June 16th, 2009, http://www.bionewsonline.com/s/what_is_water_purification.htm “Sewage Treatment”. Retrieved June 17th, 2009 http://www.euwfd.com/html/sewage_treatment.html “Environmental Remedies and water Resource
^ Kamal Meattle on how to grow fresh air TED (conference)
^ “Sewage Treatment”. Retrieved June 17th, 2009 http://www.euwfd.com/html/sewage_treatment.html “Environmental remedies and water Resource
^ Livescience. Retrieved June 27, 2009.10 top emerging environmental technologies. http://www.reference.md/files/D052/mD052918.html
^ Retrieved June 16th, 2009. http://www-esd.lbl.gov/ERT/index.html “Urban Waste Management”. Retrieved June 16th, 2009. http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTURBANDEVELOPMENT/EXTUSWM
^ Taesler, R. (1990/91) Climate and Building Energy Management. Energy and Buildings, Vol. 15-16, pp 599 - 608.
^ United States Patent 6098893 Comfort control system incorporating weather forecast data and a method for operating such a system (Inventor Stefan Berglund)
^ http://www.eia.gov/tools/faqs/faq.cfm?id=447&t=1
^ Norman, Jim. "Where There’s Never an Oil Shortage". New York Times. May 13, 2007.
^ Tillman, Adriane. "Greasestock Festival returns, bigger and better". May 14, 2008.
^ "Greasestock 2008". Greasestock. Retrieved May 20, 2008.
^ Max, Josh. "Gas-guzzlers become veggie delights at Greasestock in Yorktown Heights". Daily News. May 13, 2008.
^ "Greasestock 2008: Alternative Fuel, Fun and French Fries". Natural Awakenings. May 2008.
^ Sindh Text book board Chemistry book


Further reading[edit]

OECD Studies on Environmental Innovation Invention and Transfer of Environmental Technologies. OECD. September 2011. ISBN 978-92-64-11561-3. 

External links[edit]



Wikiversity has learning resources about Appropriate technology Designs



EUCETSA - European Committee of Environmental Technology Supplier Associations (representing over 1.000 companies in the environmental industry)
Related "Norway Online" resources
How Silicon Valley could become the Detroit of electric cars.
Reed, Daniel. 2009. Environmental and Renewable Energy Innovation Potential Among the States: State Rankings. Applied Research Project. Texas State University. http://ecommons.txstate.edu/arp/291/
"Use of Green Energy" (in agriculture) Dr. Roger Beachy, US Embassy in France
IBM Green Technology
Unintended Consequences of Green Technologies







v
t
e


Environmental technology









Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology











Pollution



Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)








Renewable energy



Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)








Conservation



Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


Environmental science






Main fields



Atmospheric sciences
Biogeochemistry
Ecology
Environmental chemistry
Geosciences
Hydrology
Limnology
Oceanography
Soil science











Related fields



Biology
Chemistry

green


Ecological economics
Environmental design
Environmental economics
Environmental engineering
Environmental health

epidemiology


Environmental studies
Environmental toxicology
Geodesy
Physics
Sustainability science
Systems ecology
Urban ecology








Applications



Energy conservation
Environmental technology
Natural resource management
Pollution control
Recycling
Remediation
Renewable energy
Sewage treatment
Urban metabolism
Water purification
Waste management








See also



Human impact on the environment
Sustainability











 Environment portal
 Category

scientists


Glossary
Degrees
Institutions
Journals
Research institutes












v
t
e


Sustainability






Principles



Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development








Consumption



Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons








Population



Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth








Technology



Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable








Biodiversity



Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species








Energy



Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty








Food



Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture








Water



Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint








Accountability



Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield








Applications



Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism








Management



Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste








Agreements



UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals











Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees









Authority control



GND: 4061650-2









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_technology&oldid=759555565"					
Categories: Environmental technologySustainable technologiesHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাCatalàDanskDeutschEestiEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaҚазақшаLietuviųMagyarBahasa Melayu日本語PortuguêsShqipSuomiSvenskaاردوTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 11 January 2017, at 21:52.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.192","walltime":"0.249","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1076,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":125061,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":266,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  137.527      1 -total"," 31.48%   43.295      7 Template:Navbox"," 17.28%   23.767      1 Template:Cite_book"," 13.41%   18.436      1 Template:Technology"," 13.16%   18.104      1 Template:Authority_control"," 13.07%   17.972      1 Template:Redirect","  6.15%    8.461      1 Template:Reflist","  5.77%    7.933      1 Template:Environmental_technology","  5.72%    7.872      1 Template:Portal","  5.51%    7.579      5 Template:Icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.056","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3011103,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1248","timestamp":"20170212035430","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":64,"wgHostname":"mw1185"});});
