 






History of science and technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For historical accounts of the development of science and technology, see history of science and history of technology.






v
t
e


History of science






Background



Theories and sociology
Historiography
Pseudoscience











By era



Early cultures
Classical Antiquity
The Golden Age of Islam
Renaissance
Scientific Revolution
Romanticism








By culture



African
Byzantine
Medieval European
Chinese
Indian
Medieval Islamic








Natural sciences



Astronomy
Biology
Botany
Chemistry
Ecology
Evolution
Geology
Geophysics
Paleontology
Physics








Mathematics



Algebra
Calculus
Combinatorics
Geometry
Logic
Probability
Statistics
Trigonometry








Social sciences



Anthropology
Economics
Geography
Linguistics
Political science
Psychology
Sociology
Sustainability








Technology



Agricultural science
Computer science
Materials science
Engineering








Medicine



Human medicine
Veterinary medicine
Anatomy
Neuroscience
Neurology
Nutrition
Pathology
Pharmacy











 Timelines
 Portal
 Category






The history of Science and Technology (HST) is a field of history which examines how humanity's understanding of the natural world (science) and ability to manipulate it (technology) have changed over the centuries. This academic discipline also studies the cultural, economic, and political impacts of scientific innovation.
Histories of science were originally written by practicing and retired scientists, starting primarily with William Whewell, as a way to communicate the virtues of science to the public. In the early 1930s, after a famous paper given by the Soviet historian Boris Hessen, was focused into looking at the ways in which scientific practices were allied with the needs and motivations of their context. After World War II, extensive resources were put into teaching and researching the discipline, with the hopes that it would help the public better understand both Science and Technology as they came to play an exceedingly prominent role in the world. In the 1960s, especially in the wake of the work done by Thomas Kuhn, the discipline began to serve a very different function, and began to be used as a way to critically examine the scientific enterprise. At the present time it is often closely aligned with the field of science studies.[citation needed]
Modern engineering as it is understood today took form during the scientific revolution, though much of the mathematics and science was built on the work of the Greeks, Egyptians, Mesopotamians, Chinese, Indians.[citation needed] See the main articles History of science and History of technology for these respective topics.



Contents


1 Universities with HST programs

1.1 Argentina
1.2 Australia
1.3 Belgium
1.4 Canada
1.5 France
1.6 Germany
1.7 Greece
1.8 India
1.9 Israel
1.10 Japan
1.11 Netherlands
1.12 Spain
1.13 Sweden
1.14 Switzerland
1.15 United Kingdom
1.16 United States


2 Prominent historians of the field
3 Journals and periodicals
4 See also
5 Professional societies
6 References
7 Bibliography
8 External links



Universities with HST programs[edit]
Argentina[edit]

Buenos Aires Institute of Technology, Argentina, has been offering courses on History of the Technology and the Science.
National Technological University, Argentina, has a complete history program on its offered careers.

Australia[edit]

The University of Sydney offers both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in the History and Philosophy of Science, run by the Unit for the History and Philosophy of Science, within the Science Faculty. Undergraduate coursework can be completed as part of either a Bachelor of Science or a Bachelor of Arts Degree. Undergraduate study can be furthered by completing an additional Honours year. For postgraduate study, the Unit offers both coursework and research based degrees. The two course-work based postgraduate degrees are the Graduate Certificate in Science (HPS) and the Graduate Diploma in Science (HPS). The two research based postgraduate degrees are a Master of Science (MSc) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD).[1]

Belgium[edit]

University of Liège, has a Department called Centre d'histoire des Sciences et Techniques.[2]

Canada[edit]

Carleton University Ottawa offer courses in Ancient Science and Technology in its Technology, Society and Environment program.
University of Toronto has a program in History and Philosophy of Science and Technology.[3]
University of King's College in Halifax, Nova Scotia has a History of Science and Technology Program.[4]

France[edit]

Nantes University has a dedicated Department called Centre François Viète.
Paris Diderot University (Paris 7) has a Department of History and Philosophy of Science.
A CNRS research center in History and Philosophy of Science SPHERE, affiliated with Paris Diderot University, has a dedicated history of technology section.
Pantheon-Sorbonne University (Paris 1) has a dedicated Institute of History and Philosophy of Science and Technics.
The École Normale Supérieure de Paris has a history of science Department.

Germany[edit]

Technische Universität Berlin, has a program in the History of Science and Technology.[5]

Greece[edit]

The University of Athens has a Department of Philosophy and History of Science [1]

India[edit]
History of science and technology is a well developed field in India. At least three generations of scholars can be identified. The first generation includes D.D.Kosambi, Dharmpal, Debiprasad Chattopadhyay and Rahman. The second generation mainly consists of Ashis Nandy, Deepak Kumar, Dhruv Raina, S. Irfan Habib, Shiv Visvanathan, Gyan Prakash, Stan Lourdswamy, V.V. Krishna, Itty Abraham, Richard Grove, Kavita Philip, Mira Nanda and Rob Anderson. There is an emergent third generation that includes scholars like Abha Sur and Jahnavi Phalkey.[citation needed]
Departments and Programmes
The National Institute of Science, Technolology and Development Studies had a research group active in the 1990s which consolidated social history of science as a field of research in India. Currently there are several institutes and university departments offering HST programmes.

Jawaharlal Nehru University has an Mphil-PhD program that offer specialisation in Social History of Science. It is at the History of Science and Education group of the Zakir Husain Centre for Educational Studies (ZHCES) in the School of Social Sciences. Renowned Indian science historians Deepak Kumar and Dhruv Raina teach here.
Central University of Gujarat has an MPhil-PhD programme in Studies in Science, Technology & Innovation Policy at the Centre for Studies in Science, Technology & Innovation Policy (CSSTIP), where Social History of Science and Technology in India is a major emphasis for research and teaching.
Banaras Hindu University has programs: one in History of Science and Technology at the Faculty of Science and one in Historical and Comparative Studies of the Sciences and the Humanities at the Faculty of Humanities.
Andhra University has now set History of Science and Technology as a compulsory subject for all the First year B-Tech students.

Israel[edit]

Tel Aviv University. The Cohn Institute for the History and Philosophy of Science and Ideas is a research and graduate teaching institute within the framework of the School of History of Tel Aviv University.[6]
Bar Ilan University has a Department for Science and Technology Studies.[7]

Japan[edit]

Kyoto University has a program in the Philosophy and History of Science.[8]
Tokyo Institute of Technology has a program in the History, Philosophy, and Social Studies of Science and Technology.[9]
The University of Tokyo has a program in the History and Philosophy of Science.[9]

Netherlands[edit]

Utrecht University, has two co-operating programs: one in History and Philosophy of Science at the Faculty of Natural Sciences and one in Historical and Comparative Studies of the Sciences and the Humanities at the Faculty of Humanities.[10][11]

Spain[edit]

University of the Basque Country, offers a master's degree and PhD programme in History and Philosophy of Science and runs since 1952 THEORIA. International Journal for Theory, History and Foundations of Science.[12][13] The university also sponsors the Basque Museum of the History of Medicine and Science, the only open museum of History of Science of Spain, that in the past offered also PhD courses.
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, offers a master's degree and PhD programme in HST together with the Universitat de Barcelona.[14]
Universitat de València, offers a master's degree and PhD programme in HST together with the Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas.[15]

Sweden[edit]

Linköpings universitet, has a Science, Technology, and Society program which includes HST.[16]

Switzerland[edit]

University of Bern, has an undergraduate and a graduate program in the History and Philosophy of Science.[17]

United Kingdom[edit]

University of Kent has a Centre for the History of the Sciences, which offers Masters programmes and undergraduate modules.[18]
University College London's Department of Science and Technology Studies offers undergraduate programme in History and Philosophy of Science, including two BSc single honour degrees (UCAS V550 and UCAS L391), plus both major and minor streams in history, philosophy and social studies of science in UCL's Natural Sciences programme. The department also offers MSc degrees in History and Philosophy of Science and in the study of contemporary Science, Technology, and Society. An MPhil/PhD research degree is offered, too.[19] UCL also contains a Centre for the History of Medicine.[20] This operates a small teaching programme in History of Medicine.
University of Oxford has a one-year graduate course in 'History of Science: Instruments, Museums, Science, Technology' associated with the Museum of the History of Science.[21]
University of Leeds has both undergraduate and graduate programmes in History and Philosophy of Science in the Department of Philosophy.[22]
University of Manchester offers undergraduate modules and postgraduate study in History of Science, Technology and Medicine and is sponsored by the Wellcome Trust.[23]
University of Bristol has a masters and PhD program in the Philosophy and History of Science.[24]
University of Cambridge has an undergraduate course and a large masters and PhD program in the History and Philosophy of Science (including the History of Medicine).[25]
University of Durham has several undergraduate History of Science modules in the Philosophy department, as well as Masters and PhD programs in the discipline.[26]
London Centre for the History of Science, Medicine, and Technology - this Centre closes in 2013. It was formed in 1987 and ran a taught MSc programme, jointly taught by University College London's Department of Science and Technology Studies and Imperial College London. The Masters programme transferred to UCL.[27]

United States[edit]
Academic study of the History of Science as an independent discipline was launched by George Sarton at Harvard with his book Introduction to the History of Science (1927) and the Isis journal (founded in 1912). Sarton exemplified the early 20th century view of the history of science as the history of great men and great ideas. He shared with many of his contemporaries a Whiggish belief in history as a record of the advances and delays in the march of progress. The History of Science was not a recognized subfield of American history in this period, and most of the work was carried out by interested Scientists and Physicians rather than professional Historians.[28] With the work of I. Bernard Cohen at Harvard, the history of Science became an established subdiscipline of history after 1945.[29]

Arizona State University's Center for Biology and Society offers several paths for MS or PhD students who are interested in issues surrounding the history and philosophy of the science, particularly biological sciences. The strength of the Center has much to do with the success of its director Jane Maienschein. With a concentration in Biology and Society one can focus on History and Philosophy of Science, Bioscience Ethics, Policy and Law, or Ecology, Economics, and Ethics of the Environment.[30]
Brown University has a program in Science and Technology Studies[31] and the History of Mathematics.[32] (This program is in the process of being phased out. There are no longer any full-time faculty, and no new students are being admitted to the program.)
California Institute of Technology offers courses in the History and Philosophy of Science to fulfill its core humanities requirements.
Case Western Reserve University has an undergraduate interdisciplinary program in the History and Philosophy of Science[33] and a graduate program in the History of Science, Technology, Environment, and Medicine (STEM).[34]
Cornell University offers a variety of courses within the Science and Technology course. One notable course is called Science and Technology History, taught currently by Professor Peter Dear, which centers upon the development of Science and Technology History from the Newtonian era up to the Einsteinian revolution. This class is one of the longest running classes at Cornell University and is offered by the College of Arts and Sciences and caters to students who want to learn more about the development of modern science.[35]
Georgia Institute of Technology has an undergraduate and graduate program in the History of Technology and Society.[36]
Harvard has a large undergraduate and graduate program in History of Science, and is one of the largest departments currently in the world.[37]
Indiana University offers undergraduate courses and a masters and PhD program in the History and Philosophy of Science.[9]
Johns Hopkins University has an undergraduate and graduate program in the History of Science, Medicine, and Technology.[38]
University of Kings College has a degree program in History of Science and Technology
Lehigh University offers an undergraduate level STS concentration (founded in 1972) and a graduate program with emphasis on the History of Industrial America.[39]
Massachusetts Institute of Technology has a Science, Technology, and Society program which includes HST.[40]
Michigan State University offers an undergraduate major and minor in History, Philosophy, and Sociology of Science through its Lyman Briggs College.[41]
New Jersey Institute of Technology has a Science, Technology, and Society program which includes the History of Science and Technology[42]
Oregon State University offers a Masters and Ph.D. in History of Science through its Department of History.[43]
Princeton University has a program in the History of Science.[44]
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute has a Science and Technology Studies department
Rutgers has a graduate Program in History of Science, Technology, Environment, and Health.[45]
Stanford has a History and Philosophy of Science and Technology program.[46]
Stevens Institute of Technology has an undergraduate and graduate program in the History of Science.
University of California, Berkeley offers a graduate degree in HST through its History program, and maintains a separate sub-department for the field.[47]
University of California, Los Angeles has a relatively large group History of Science and Medicine faculty and graduate students within its History department, and also offers an undergraduate minor in the History of Science.[48]
University of California Santa Barbara has an interdisciplinary graduate program emphasis in Technology & Society through the Center for Information Technology & Society. The history department is affiliated with the emphasis.[49]
University of Florida has a Graduate Program in 'History of Science, Technology, and Medicine' at the University of Florida provides undergraduate and graduate degrees.[50]
University of Minnesota has a Ph.D. program in History of Science, Technology, and Medicine as well as undergraduate courses in these fields. The Minnesota model "integrates" historians of science, technology, and medicine within the various science departments they study, each holding a joint appointment.[51]
University of Oklahoma has an undergraduate minor and a graduate degree program in History of Science.[52]
University of Pennsylvania has a program in History and Sociology of Science.[53]
University of Pittsburgh's Department of History and Philosophy of Science offers graduate and undergraduate courses.[54]
University of Puget Sound has a Science, Technology, and Society program, which includes the history of Science and Technology.[55]
University of Wisconsin–Madison has one of the largest programs in History of Science, Medicine and Technology, with particular strength in Medical History, History of Biology, History of Science and Religion, and Environmental History. This program was the first to exist as an independent academic department. It offers M.A. and Ph.D. degrees as well as an undergraduate major.[56]
Wesleyan University has a Science in Society program.[57]
Yale University has a program in the History of Science and Medicine.[58]

Prominent historians of the field[edit]
See also the list of George Sarton medalists.


Wiebe Bijker
Peter J. Bowler
Janet Browne
James Burke
Edwin Arthur Burtt
Johann Beckmann
Jim Bennett
Herbert Butterfield (1900–1979)
Martin Campbell-Kelly
Georges Canguilhem (1904–1995)
Allan Chapman
I. Bernard Cohen (1914–2003)
A. C. Crombie (1915–1996)
E. J. Dijksterhuis
Pierre Duhem (1861–1916)
A. Hunter Dupree
George Dyson
Jacques Ellul
Eugene S. Ferguson
Peter Galison
Sigfried Giedion
Charles Coulston Gillispie
Robert Gunther (1869–1940)
Paul Forman
Donna Haraway
Peter Harrison
Ahmad Y Hassan
John L. Heilbron
Boris Hessen
Reijer Hooykaas
David A. Hounshell
Thomas P. Hughes
Evelyn Fox Keller
Daniel Kevles
Alexandre Koyré (1892–1964)
Melvin Kranzberg
Thomas Kuhn
Deepak Kumar
Gilbert LaFreniere
Bruno Latour
David C. Lindberg
G. E. R. Lloyd
Jane Maienschein
Anneliese Maier
Leo Marx
Lewis Mumford (1895–1990)
John E. Murdoch (1927-2010)
Otto Neugebauer (1899–1990)
William R. Newman
David Noble
Ronald Numbers
David E. Nye
Abraham Pais (1918–2000)
Trevor Pinch
Theodore Porter
Lawrence M. Principe
Raúl Rojas
Michael Ruse
A. I. Sabra
Jan Sapp
George Sarton (1884–1956)
Simon Schaffer
Howard Segal
Steven Shapin
Wolfgang Schivelbusch
Charles Singer
Merritt Roe Smith
Stephen Snobelen
M. Norton Wise
Frances A. Yates (1899–1981)


Journals and periodicals[edit]

Annals of Science
The British Journal for the History of Science
Centaurus
Dynamis
History and Technology (magazine)
History of Technology (book series)
Historical Studies in the Physical and Biological Sciences (HSPS)
Historical Studies in the Natural Sciences (HSNS)
ICON
IEEE Annals of the History of Computing
Isis
Journal of the History of Biology
Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences
Notes and Records of the Royal Society
Osiris
Science & Technology Studies
Science in Context
Science, Technology, & Human Values
Social History of Medicine'
Social Studies of Science
Technology and Culture
Transactions of the Newcomen Society
Historia Mathematica
Bulletin of the Scientific Instrument Society

See also[edit]

Science and Technology in the United States
Technological and Industrial History of the United States
Science and Technology in Argentina
Science and Technology in Canada
Productivity Improving Technologies (Historical)

Professional societies[edit]

The British Society for the History of Science (BSHS)
History of Science Society (HSS)
Newcomen Society [2]
Society for the History of Technology (SHOT)
Society for the Social Studies of Science (4S)
Scientific Instrument Society [3]

References[edit]


^ The University of Sydney. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved December 3, 2009. 
^ Université de Liège. "CHST". Retrieved January 3, 2010. 
^ University of Toronto. "History and Philosophy of Science and Technology". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of King's College. "History of Science & Technology". Retrieved November 14, 2016. 
^ Berlin Technical University. "Philosophy, Theory of Science, and History of Science and Technology". Archived from the original on July 19, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Tel Aviv University. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved December 4, 2009. 
^ Bar Ilan University. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved December 4, 2009. 
^ Kyoto University (November 20, 2010). "Philosophy and History of Science". Retrieved September 16, 2013. 
^ a b c Tokyo Institute of Technology. "Department of History and Philosophy of Science". Archived from the original on 2009-10-19. Retrieved September 16, 2013. 
^ Utrecht University. "History and Philosophy of Science". Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Utrecht University. "Historical and Comparative Studies of the Sciences and Humanities". Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of the Basque Country. "Máster Universitario en Filosofía, Ciencia y Valores" (in Spanish). Retrieved August 31, 2011. 
^ University of the Basque Country. "THEORIA. International Journal for Theory, History and Foundations of Science". Retrieved August 20, 2011. 
^ Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona. "Centre d'Història de la Ciència". Retrieved April 10, 2008. 
^ Universitat Valencia. "Instituto de Historia de la Medicina y de la Ciencia Lopez Piñero". Retrieved April 10, 2010. 
^ Linköping University. "Tema Teknik och social förändring". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Bern. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved December 21, 2006. 
^ "History of the Sciences - School of History - University of Kent". www.kent.ac.uk. Retrieved 7 August 2016. 
^ University College London. "Science and Technology Studies". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University College London. "The Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Oxford. "History of Science: Instruments, Museums, Science, Technology". Archived from the original on July 19, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Leeds. "History & Philosophy of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Manchester. "History of Science, Technology and Medicine". Retrieved December 12, 2007. 
^ University of Bristol. "Department of Philosophy". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Cambridge. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Durham. "Department of Philosophy". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ London Centre for the History of Science, Medicine and Technology. "History of Science, Medicine and Technology". 
^ Nathan Reingold, "History of Science Today, 1. Uniformity as Hidden Diversity: History of Science in the United States, 1920-1940," British Journal for the History of Science 1986 19(3): 243-262
^ Dauben, JW; Gleason, ML; Smith, GE (2009). "Seven decades of history of science: I. Bernard Cohen (1914-2003), second editor of Isis". Isis; an international review devoted to the history of science and its cultural influences. 100 (1): 4–35. doi:10.1086/597575. PMID 19554868. 
^ Arizona State University. "Center for Biology and Society - Education". Retrieved October 11, 2011. 
^ Brown University. "Committee of Science and Technology Studies". 
^ Brown University. "History of Mathematics at Brown". Archived from the original on June 12, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Case Western Reserve University. "History and Philosophy of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Case Western Reserve University. "History of Science, Technology, Environment, and Medicine". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Cornell University. "Science and Technology Studies". Retrieved May 16, 2006. 
^ Georgia Institute of Technology. "School of History, Technology, and Society". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Harvard University. "Department of the History of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Johns Hopkins University. "History of Science, Medicine, and Technology". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Lehigh University. "The Science, Technology, and Society Program". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Program in Science, Technology, and Society". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Michigan State University. "HPS at LBC". Retrieved 26 November 2012. 
^ New Jersey Institute of Technology. "Program in Science, Technology, and Society". Retrieved February 28, 2007. 
^ Oregon State University. "Graduate Programs". Archived from the original on October 22, 2007. Retrieved May 15, 2007. 
^ Princeton University. "Program in History of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ Rutgers University. "History of Science, Technology, Environment, and Health". Retrieved May 19, 2013. 
^ Stanford University. "History and Philosophy of Science and Technology". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of California, Berkeley. "History of science and technology". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of California, Los Angeles. "History of Science Program". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of California Santa Barbara. "Center for Information Technology & Society". Retrieved October 6, 2010. 
^ University of Florida. "Department of History". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Minnesota. "History of Science, Technology, and Medicine". Retrieved April 21, 2009. 
^ University of Oklahoma. "Department of the History of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Pennsylvania. "History & Sociology of Science". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 
^ University of Pittsburgh. "History & Philosophy of Science". Retrieved June 8, 2010. 
^ University of Puget Sound. "Science, Technology, & Society". Retrieved February 14, 2011. 
^ University of Wisconsin–Madison. "History of Science". Retrieved June 24, 2008. 
^ Wesleyan University. "Science in Society program". Retrieved April 29, 2009. 
^ Yale University. "History of Science and Medicine". Retrieved July 30, 2006. 


Bibliography[edit]
Historiography of science

H. Floris Cohen, The Scientific Revolution: A Historiographical Inquiry, University of Chicago Press 1994 - Discussion on the origins of modern science has been going on for more than two hundred years. Cohen provides an excellent overview.
Ernst Mayr, The Growth of Biological Thought, Belknap Press 1985
Michel Serres,(ed.), A History of Scientific Thought, Blackwell Publishers 1995
Companion to Science in the Twentieth Century, John Krige (Editor), Dominique Pestre (Editor), Taylor & Francis 2003, 941pp
The Cambridge History of Science, Cambridge University Press

Volume 4, Eighteenth-Century Science, 2003
Volume 5, The Modern Physical and Mathematical Sciences, 2002



History of science as a discipline

J. A. Bennett, 'Museums and the Establishment of the History of Science at Oxford and Cambridge', British Journal for the History of Science 30, 1997, 29–46
Dietrich von Engelhardt, Historisches Bewußtsein in der Naturwissenschaft : von der Aufklärung bis zum Positivismus, Freiburg [u.a.] : Alber, 1979
A.-K. Mayer, 'Setting up a Discipline: Conflicting Agendas of the Cambridge History of Science Committee, 1936–1950.' Studies in History and Philosophy of Science, 31, 2000

External links[edit]

Science and Education in Argentina
IsisCB Explore: History of Science Index An open access discovery tool of scholarly resources
The History of Science Society's "Guide to the Profession"
A page of Science, Technology, and Society links.
What's wrong with "technology as applied science?"
History of Science and Technology - Resources for Science Learning, The Franklin Institute







v
t
e


History of technology









History of technology cultures


Prehistoric technology
Neolithic
Ancient Egypt
Mayan
Ancient Greek
Roman
Chinese
Byzantine
Medieval Islam
Medieval Europe
Renaissance
Ottoman
Great Divergence
Industrial Revolution
Modern











History of technology domains


History of biotechnology
History of communication
History of computing hardware
History of electrical engineering
History of materials science
History of measurement
History of medicine
History of nuclear technology
History of transport












v
t
e


Science and technology studies






Economics



Economics of science
Economics of scientific knowledge








History



History and philosophy of science
History of science

and technology


History of technology








Philosophy



Antipositivism
Empiricism
Fuzzy logic
Philosophy of science
Philosophy of social science
Philosophy of technology
Positivism
Postpositivism
Social constructivism
Social epistemology








Sociology



Actor–network theory
Social

construction of technology
shaping of technology


Sociology of knowledge

scientific


Sociology of scientific ignorance
Sociology of the history of science
Sociotechnology
Strong programme








Science
studies



Antiscience
Bibliometrics
Boundary-work
Consilience
Demarcation problem
Double hermeneutic
Mapping controversies
Paradigm shift
Pseudoscience
Science

citizen
communication
education
normal
post-normal
rhetoric
wars


Scientific

method
consensus
controversy
enterprise
misconduct


Scientometrics
Team science
Traditional knowledge

ecological


Unity of science
Women in science

STEM










Technology
studies



Coproduction
Cyborg anthropology
Digital anthropology
Dematerialization
Early adopter
Hype cycle
Innovation

diffusion
disruptive
linear model
system
user


Leapfrogging
Normalization process theory
Reverse salient
Skunkworks project
Sociotechnical system
Technical change
Technoscience

feminist


Technological

change
convergence
determinism
revolution
transitions


Technology

and society
critique of
dynamics
theories of
transfer


Engineering studies
Women in engineering








Policy



Digital divide
Evidence-based policy
Factor 10
Science policy

history of
science of


Politicization of science
Regulation of science
Research ethics
Socio-scientific issues
Technology assessment
Technology policy
Transition management











 Portals

Science
History of science
Technology
Sociology


 Category

Associations
Journals
Scholars











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=History_of_science_and_technology&oldid=760192579"					
Categories: Historiography of scienceHistory of scienceHistory of technologyHistory of science by disciplineHistory of industriesTechnological changeScience and technologyHidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2012Articles with unsourced statements from January 2016 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةEsperantoGaelgItalianoNederlandsPolskiRomânăРусскийSlovenščinaTagalogதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeWinaray 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 15 January 2017, at 14:40.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.588","walltime":"0.639","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2753,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":128745,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":1667,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  504.369      1 -total"," 65.83%  332.021      1 Template:Reflist"," 49.64%  250.350     56 Template:Cite_web"," 12.82%   64.638      3 Template:Citation_needed"," 11.60%   58.483      3 Template:Fix","  5.86%   29.549      3 Template:Navbox","  5.70%   28.735      3 Template:Delink","  5.17%   26.095      6 Template:Category_handler","  4.23%   21.344      1 Template:History_of_science","  3.63%   18.285      1 Template:Hatnote"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.289","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5195927,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1165","timestamp":"20170212161644","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":59,"wgHostname":"mw1181"});});
