 






Technology tree

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Technology Tree)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search










One part of Freeciv’s technology tree. Note the complex dependencies between technologies.


In strategy computer games, a technology, tech, or research tree is a hierarchical visual representation of the possible sequences of upgrades a player can take (most often through the act of research). The diagram is tree-shaped in the sense that it branches between each 'level', allowing the player to choose one sequence or another.[1] Each level is called a tier and is often used to describe the technological strength of a player. Typically, at the beginning of a session of a strategy game, a player will start at tier 1, and will only have a few options for technologies to research. Each technology that a player researches will open up one or more new options, but may or may not, depending on the computer game, close off the paths to other options. The tech tree is the representation of all possible paths of research a player can take, up to the culmination of said sequence.
A player who is engaged in research activities is said to be "teching up," "going up the tech tree," or "moving up the tech tree." Analysis of a tech tree can lead players to memorize and use specific build orders.



Contents


1 Types

1.1 Classic research
1.2 Allocation
1.3 Building-based
1.4 Prerequisites for technology advances
1.5 Complexity
1.6 Availability of technologies
1.7 Balance between civilian and military techs
1.8 What happens after researching everything


2 History
3 See also
4 References



Types[edit]
Classic research[edit]
The Classic tech tree is the one where extensive research into new technologies must be conducted parallel to the progression of a game. Some real-time strategy (RTS) games as well as most turn-based strategy (TBS) games employ this type of tech tree. In these games, players typically have a 'command center', 'unit-training-facility' and 'research facility' at their disposal from the start, allowing them to both start research into more advanced technologies, or engaging in combat with enemies using the basic units (Warzone 2100, Mega Lo Mania, Master of Orion series, 'Civilization series, Space Empires series).
Allocation[edit]
In some games, the requirement of an actual research facility is absent. In this case players can allocate research points, or in-game resources to purchase new technologies. In some games the allocation yields direct results, meaning that procuring the new technology isn't paired with allotted time for the research of said technology to complete.
Building-based[edit]
In most RTS games the technology tree consists of buildings which must be built in a specific sequence, which in turn unlocks new technologies. These newly unlocked technologies can be more advanced unit, upgrades for research or more advanced buildings. (StarCraft, Command & Conquer Series.)
Prerequisites for technology advances[edit]
In most types of strategy games, the player needs particular buildings in order to research specific technologies or build specific advanced units (StarCraft, Total Annihilation), while in other games upgrades/technologies are unlocked through research of their parent technology research (Warzone 2100). In many TBS games the prerequisite is one or more lower-level technologies, with no dependency on specific buildings (Master of Orion series, Civilization series, Space Empires series).[2][3][4] Most strategy games however use both systems. both requiring dedicated buildings and in advanced cases pre requisite technology, sometimes culminating in a game ending super-weapon of some kind.
Complexity[edit]
The structures of tech trees vary quite widely. In the simplest cases (e.g. Master of Orion) there are several completely separate research areas and one could research all the way up to the highest level in one area without researching other areas (although this would often be far from ideal). In more complex cases[citation needed] (e.g. Civilization) every technology above the starting level has more than one prerequisite and one has to research most of the lower-level technologies in order to research any of the top-level technologies. And there are many possibilities between these two variants, for example in Space Empires researching to a specified level in one field may enable the player both to research to a higher level in that field and to start research in a new field which was previously not available.[2]
Major 4X games like Civilization and Master of Orion have a much larger technology tree than most other strategy games; as an extreme example, Space Empires III has over 200 technologies.[5][6]
Availability of technologies[edit]
Some RTSs make different techs available to different races or cultures (especially StarCraft; but many RTSs have special units or buildings for different cultures, e.g. Age of Empires expansion pack and later versions, Red Alert 2). Most TBSs make all technologies available to all cultures (e.g. Civilization). Master of Orion (original version) is a complex special case in this respect: the full tree is the same for all; but in each game each player gets a subset of the full tech tree that depends on which race was selected.
Balance between civilian and military techs[edit]
In many RTS games tech advances are almost exclusively military (e.g. StarCraft). But in most TBS and some RTS games the research and production costs of top-end military techs are so high that you have to build up your economy and your research productivity first (RTS – Age of Empires and Empire Earth, where one of the most significant costs is going up an epoch; TBS – the Civilization series and Master of Orion series).
What happens after researching everything[edit]
In many games there's nothing useful to do and the player may scrap research centers to save maintenance costs and/or devote the resources to something else (Space Empires series).
In later installments of the Civilization series the last technology (called "future tech") represents an amalgamation of all possible future discoveries and can be researched repeatedly. In Civilization V, it increases a player's score, while in Civilization IV it raises the health and the happiness in the empire. Note that to reach the last technology, all spaceship technologies required to win must also have been discovered, so the game will be nearing its conclusion.
In the Galactic Civilizations series the final technology solves the nature of existence, and is victory.
In the Master of Orion series more advanced research reduces the size and cost of spaceship components, and "hyper-advanced" research in areas which have military applications therefore enables players to build more high-tech weapons into a given ship size and at lower production cost.
In Rise of Nations, the final four technologies result in such an advantage that the game will likely end quickly. Also, the "knowledge" resource needed to research is also used late in the game to produce cruise missiles and nuclear weapons.
History[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


The concept of a tech tree originally appeared in Francis Tresham's Civilization board game, which was released in 1980 by Avalon Hill.
The arcade shoot 'em up Gradius used a power-up system functionally identical to a tech tree in 1985.
Tech trees started showing up in turn-based strategy games in the early 1990s. The 1991 video game Mega Lo Mania had a tech tree with a system of research levels/epochs that allowed the deployment of better units and defences and is considered to be the first game to combine a technology tree into a Real-time strategy game, whereas The video game Civilization, also released in 1991, was probably the first turn-based strategy game to feature the same basic structure of tech trees seen in games today.
See also[edit]

Timeline of historic inventions

References[edit]


^ Rollings, Andrew; Ernest Adams (2006). Fundamentals of Game Design. Prentice Hall. 
^ a b See the relevant games' manuals.
^ Master of Orion (1993), the Galactic Civilizations series and Sword of the Stars have no research buildings; players simply allocate some of each colony's output to research (see game manuals). In the Civilization series (1991 onwards) and Master of Orion II (1996) one can do research without buildings, but it's much faster when supported by the right buildings (see game manuals). In the Space Empires series (1993 onwards) and in Ascendancy (1995) research can only be done via buildings, but these can research any technology (see game manuals).
^ "RTS Basics: R & D".  and the StarCraft manual. Although multi-epoch games like the Age of Empires and Empire Earth series have a larger number of research options and a significant proportion of civilian research options, the research options all depend on having the right buildings. See the relevant games' manuals.
^ "Joystiq interview: Ironclad talks 4X strategy with Sins of a Solar Empire". February 1, 2008. Retrieved 2008-06-14. 
^ In Warcraft III one can reach the highest level of one branch of the technology tree in five steps; Master of Orion (original version) has 10 levels per subject, and 2 to 5 technologies per level; the Civilization IV technology tree requires nearly 60 steps to reach the end (see game manuals).








v
t
e


Real-time strategy gameplay









Actions per minute
Build order
Fog of war
Macromanagement
Metagaming
Micromanagement
Rush
Random map
Technology tree
Turtling









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Technology_tree&oldid=761899761"					
Categories: Video game gameplayApplication-specific graphsHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2009Articles needing additional references from July 2016All articles needing additional references 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschEspañolFrançais한국어ItalianoNederlandsPolskiРусский中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2017, at 13:35.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.120","walltime":"0.167","ppvisitednodes":{"value":591,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":17679,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":950,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  131.580      1 -total"," 39.79%   52.362      1 Template:Citation_needed"," 36.09%   47.493      1 Template:Reflist"," 28.53%   37.540      1 Template:Fix"," 24.39%   32.096      1 Template:Cite_book"," 17.05%   22.432      2 Template:Category_handler"," 10.16%   13.362      1 Template:Unreferenced_section","  9.59%   12.618      1 Template:Delink","  8.45%   11.114      1 Template:Unreferenced","  6.69%    8.802      1 Template:Ambox"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.051","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2593662,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1227","timestamp":"20170125133551","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":55,"wgHostname":"mw1266"});});
