 






Aerospace

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the corporation, see The Aerospace Corporation.




View of the Earth's atmosphere and the Moon beyond


Aerospace is the human effort in science, engineering and business to fly in the atmosphere of Earth (aeronautics) and surrounding space (astronautics). Aerospace organisations research, design, manufacture, operate, or maintain aircraft and/or spacecraft. Aerospace activity is very diverse, with a multitude of commercial, industrial and military applications.
Aerospace is not the same as airspace, which is the physical air space directly above a location on the ground. The beginning of space and the ending of the air is considered as 100 km above the ground according to the physical explanation that the air pressure is too low for a lifting body to generate meaningful lift force without exceeding orbital velocity.[1]



Contents


1 Overview
2 History
3 Manufacturing
4 Functional safety
5 Spinoffs
6 See also
7 References
8 External links



Overview[edit]
In most industrial countries, the aerospace industry is a cooperation of public and private industries. For example, several countries have a civilian space program funded by the government through tax collection, such as National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the United States, European Space Agency in Europe, the Canadian Space Agency in Canada, Indian Space Research Organisation in India, Japanese Aeronautics Exploration Agency in Japan, RKA in Russia, China National Space Administration in China, SUPARCO in Pakistan, Iranian Space Agency in Iran, and Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI) in South Korea.
Along with these public space programs, many companies produce technical tools and components such as spaceships and satellites. Some known companies involved in space programs include Boeing, Airbus Group, SpaceX, Lockheed Martin, MacDonald Dettwiler and Northrop Grumman. These companies are also involved in other areas of aerospace such as the construction of aircraft.
History[edit]
Main articles: History of aviation and Timeline of space exploration
Modern aerospace began with George Cayley in 1799. Cayley proposed an aircraft with a "fixed wing and a horizontal and vertical tail," defining characteristics of the modern airplane.[2]
The 19th century saw the creation of the Aeronautical Society of Great Britain (1866), the American Rocketry Society, and the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences, all of which made aeronautics a more serious scientific discipline.[2] Airmen like Otto Lilienthal, who introduced cambered airfoils in 1891, used gliders to analyze aerodynamic forces.[2] The Wright brothers were interested in Lilienthal's work and read several of his publications.[2] They also found inspiration in Octave Chanute, an airman and the author of Progress in Flying Machines (1894).[2] It was the preliminary work of Cayley, Lilienthal, Chanute, and other early aerospace engineers that brought about the first powered sustained flight at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina on December 17, 1903, by the Wright brothers.
War and science fiction inspired great minds like Konstantin Tsiolkovsky and Wernher von Braun to achieve flight beyond the atmosphere.
The launch of Sputnik 1 in October 1957 started the Space Age, and on July 20, 1969 Apollo 11 achieved the first manned moon landing.[2] In April 1981, the Space Shuttle Columbia launched, the start of regular manned access to orbital space. A sustained human presence in orbital space started with "Mir" in 1986 and is continued by the "International Space Station".[2] Space commercialization and space tourism are more recent focuses in aerospace.
Manufacturing[edit]
Main article: Aerospace manufacturer
Aerospace manufacturing is a high-technology industry that produces "aircraft, guided missiles, space vehicles, aircraft engines, propulsion units, and related parts".[3] Most of the industry is geared toward governmental work. For each original equipment manufacturer (OEM), the US government has assigned a Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) code. These codes help to identify each manufacturer, repair facilities, and other critical aftermarket vendors in the aerospace industry.
In the United States, the Department of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) are the two largest consumers of aerospace technology and products. Others include the very large airline industry. The aerospace industry employed 472,000 wage and salary workers in 2006.[4] Most of those jobs were in Washington state and in California, with Missouri, New York and Texas also being important. The leading aerospace manufacturers in the U.S. are Boeing, United Technologies Corporation, SpaceX, Northrop Grumman and Lockheed Martin. These manufacturers are facing an increasing labor shortage as skilled U.S. workers age and retire. Apprenticeship programs such as the Aerospace Joint Apprenticeship Council (AJAC) work in collaboration with Washington state aerospace employers and community colleges to train new manufacturing employees to keep the industry supplied.
Important locations of the civilian aerospace industry worldwide include Washington state (Boeing), California (Boeing, Lockheed Martin, etc.); Montreal, Quebec, Canada (Bombardier, Pratt & Whitney Canada); Toulouse, France (Airbus/EADS); Hamburg, Germany (Airbus/EADS); and São José dos Campos, Brazil (Embraer), Querétaro, Mexico (Bombardier Aerospace, General Electric Aviation) and Mexicali, Mexico (United Technologies Corporation, Gulfstream Aerospace).
In the European Union, aerospace companies such as EADS, BAE Systems, Thales, Dassault, Saab AB and Leonardo-Finmeccanica (formerly Finmeccnica)[5] account for a large share of the global aerospace industry and research effort, with the European Space Agency as one of the largest consumers of aerospace technology and products.
In India, Bangalore is a major center of the aerospace industry, where Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, the National Aerospace Laboratories and the Indian Space Research Organisation are headquartered. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched India's first Moon orbiter, Chandrayaan-1, in October 2008.
In Russia, large aerospace companies like Oboronprom and the United Aircraft Building Corporation (encompassing Mikoyan, Sukhoi, Ilyushin, Tupolev, Yakovlev, and Irkut which includes Beriev) are among the major global players in this industry. The historic Soviet Union was also the home of a major aerospace industry.
The United Kingdom formerly attempted to maintain its own large aerospace industry, making its own airliners and warplanes, but it has largely turned its lot over to cooperative efforts with continental companies, and it has turned into a large import customer, too, from countries such as the United States. However, the UK has a very active aerospace sector, including the second largest defence contractor in the world, BAE Systems, supplying fully assembled aircraft, aircraft components, sub-assemblies and sub-systems to other manufacturers, both in Europe and all over the world.
Canada has formerly manufactured some of its own designs for jet warplanes, etc. (e.g. the CF-100 fighter), but for some decades, it has relied on imports from the United States to fill these needs. However Canada still manufactures some military planes although they are generally not combat or fighter planes.
France has continued to make its own warplanes for its air force and navy, and Sweden continues to make its own warplanes for the Swedish Air Force—especially in support of its position as a neutral country. (See Saab AB.) Other European countries either team up in making fighters (such as the Panavia Tornado and the Eurofighter Typhoon), or else to import them from the United States.
Pakistan has a developing aerospace engineering industry. The National Engineering and Scientific Commission, Khan Research Laboratories and Pakistan Aeronautical Complex are among the premier organizations involved in research and development in this sector. Pakistan has the capability of designing and manufacturing guided rockets, missiles and space vehicles. The city of Kamra is home to the Pakistan Aeronautical Complex which contains several factories. This facility is responsible for manufacturing the MFI-17, MFI-395, K-8 and JF-17 Thunder aircraft. Pakistan also has the capability to design and manufacture both armed and unarmed unmanned aerial vehicles.
In the People's Republic of China, Beijing, Xi'an, Chengdu, Shanghai, Shenyang and Nanchang are major research and manufacture centers of the aerospace industry. China has developed an extensive capability to design, test and produce military aircraft, missiles and space vehicles. Despite the cancellation in 1983 of the experimental Shanghai Y-10, China is still developing its civil aerospace industry.
The aircraft parts industry was born out of the sale of second-hand or used aircraft parts from the aerospace manufacture sector. Within the United States there is a specific process that parts brokers or resellers must follow. This includes leveraging a certified repair station to overhaul and "tag" a part. This certification guarantees that a part was repaired or overhauled to meet OEM specifications. Once a part is overhauled its value is determined from the supply and demand of the aerospace market. When an airline has an aircraft on the ground, the part that the airline requires to get the plane back into service becomes invaluable. This can drive the market for specific parts. There are several online marketplaces that assist with the commodity selling of aircraft parts.
In the aerospaces & defense industry, a lot of consolidation has appeared over the last couple of decades. Between 1988 and 2011, worldwide more than 6,068 mergers & acquisitions with a total known value of 678 bil. USD have been announced.[6] The largest transactions have been: the acquisition of Goodrich Corporation by United Technologies Corporation for 16.2 bil. USD in 2011,[7] Allied Signal merged with Honeywell in a stock swap valued 15.6 bil. USD in 1999,[8] the merger of Boeing with McDonnell valued at 13.4 bil. USD in 1996,[9] Marconi Electronic Systems, a subsidiary of GEC, was acquired by British Aerospace for 12.9 bil. USD in 1999[10] (now called: BAE Systems), and Raytheon acquired Hughes Aircraft for 9.5 bil. USD in 1997.
Functional safety[edit]
Functional safety relates to a part of the general safety of a system or a piece of equipment. It implies that the system or equipment can be operated properly and without causing any danger, risk, damage or injury.
Functional safety is crucial in the aerospace industry, which allows no compromises or negligence. In this respect, supervisory bodies, such as the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA ),[11] regulate the aerospace market with strict certification standards. This is meant to reach and ensure the highest possible level of safety. The standards AS 9100 in America, EN 9100 on the European market or JISQ 9100 in Asia particularly address the aerospace and aviation industry. These are standards applying to the functional safety of aerospace vehicles. Some companies are therefore specialized in the certification, inspection verification and testing of the vehicles and spare parts to ensure and attest compliance with the appropriate regulations.
Spinoffs[edit]
Spinoffs refer to any technology that is a direct result of coding or products created by NASA and redesigned for an alternate purpose.[12] These technological advancements are one of the primary results of the aerospace industry, with $5.2 billion worth of revenue generated by spinoff technology, including computers and cellular devices.[12] These spinoffs have applications in a variety of different fields including medicine, transportation, energy, consumer goods, public safety and more.[12] NASA publishes an annual report called “Spinoffs”, regarding many of the specific products and benefits to the aforementioned areas in an effort to highlight some of the ways funding is put to use.[13] For example, in the most recent edition of this publication, “Spinoffs 2015”, endoscopes are featured as one of the medical derivations of aerospace achievement.[12] This device enables more precise and subsequently cost-effective neurosurgery by reducing complications through a minimally invasive procedure that abbreviates hospitalization.[12]
See also[edit]
Main article: Outline of aerospace

Aerodynamics
Aeronautics
Aerospace engineering
Aircraft
Astronautics
Space agencies (List of)
Space exploration
Spacecraft
Wiktionary: Aviation, aerospace, and aeronautical terms

References[edit]


^ "Where does space begin? - Aerospace Engineering, Aviation News, Salary, Jobs and Museums". Aerospace Engineering, Aviation News, Salary, Jobs and Museums. Retrieved 2015-11-10. 
^ a b c d e f g Jr, John D. Anderson, (2008). Introduction to flight (6th ed.). Boston: McGraw-Hill. ISBN 978-0-07-352939-4. 
^ "United States Bureau of Labor Statistics". 
^ "U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing". Archived from the original on 14 August 2009. Retrieved 2009-07-04. 
^ "It's Official: Finmeccanica Is Now Leonardo". Defensenews. 
^ "Statistics on Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) - M&A Courses | Company Valuation Courses | Mergers & Acquisitions Courses". Imaa-institute.org. Retrieved 2013-09-27. 
^ "United Technologies To Acquire Goodrich Corporation Complements And Strengthens Position In Aerospace And Defense Industry". UTC. Retrieved 2013-09-27. 
^ "Allied Signal And Honeywell To Announce Merger Today - New York Times". Nytimes.com. 1999-06-07. Retrieved 2013-09-27. 
^ [1] Archived June 15, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.
^ [2] Archived August 25, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2013-06-20. Retrieved 2013-06-03.  European Aviation Safety Agency
^ a b c d e [3]
^ [4]


External links[edit]



Look up aerospace in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.








v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Aerospace&oldid=762312071"					
Categories: AerospaceHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


AfrikaansالعربيةČeštinaEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어हिन्दीBahasa Indonesiaမြန်မာဘာသာ日本語PortuguêsScotsShqipTürkçeاردو中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 January 2017, at 00:27.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.164","walltime":"0.218","ppvisitednodes":{"value":972,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":83031,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":125,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  139.753      1 -total"," 51.59%   72.098      1 Template:Reflist"," 32.04%   44.773      8 Template:Cite_web"," 24.62%   34.409      4 Template:Navbox"," 18.12%   25.323      1 Template:Technology-footer"," 13.81%   19.305      1 Template:For","  4.80%    6.715      3 Template:Icon","  4.66%    6.506      1 Template:Wiktionary","  4.32%    6.033      2 Template:Webarchive","  3.70%    5.164      3 Template:Main_article"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.058","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3469567,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1258","timestamp":"20170205082523","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":58,"wgHostname":"mw1247"});});
