 






Agricultural science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Agriculture


History





History of organic farming
British Agricultural Revolution
Green Revolution
Neolithic Revolution





Farming





Dairy
Dryland
Extensive
Free-range
Grazing
Hobby
Intensive

animal
crop


Natural
Organic
Pig
Poultry





Other types





Aquaculture
Aquaponics
Hydroponics
Orchard
Ranching
Sharecropping
Slash-and-burn
Stock-free
Sustainable
Urban





Related





Agribusiness
Agricultural engineering
Agricultural science
Agroecology
Agroforestry
Agronomy
Animal husbandry (sheep)
Crop diversity
Ecology
Livestock
Mechanisation
Permaculture





Lists





Government ministries
Universities and colleges





Categories





Agriculture

by country
companies


Biotechnology
Livestock
Meat industry
Poultry farming





 Agriculture and agronomy portal





v
t
e





Agricultural science is a broad multidisciplinary field of biology that encompasses the parts of exact, natural, economic and social sciences that are used in the practice and understanding of agriculture. (Veterinary science, but not animal science, is often excluded from the definition.)



Contents


1 Agriculture, agricultural science, and agronomy

1.1 Agricultural biotechnology


2 Fertilizer
3 A local science
4 History of agricultural science
5 Prominent agricultural scientists
6 Agricultural science and agriculture crisis
7 Fields or related disciplines
8 See also
9 Further reading
10 References
11 External links



Agriculture, agricultural science, and agronomy[edit]
The three terms are often confused. However, they cover different concepts:

Agriculture is the set of activities that transform the environment for the production of animals and plants for human use. Agriculture concerns techniques, including the application of agronomic research.
Agronomy is research and development related to studying and improving plant-based crops.

Agricultural sciences include research and development on:

Production techniques (e.g., irrigation management, recommended nitrogen inputs)
Improving agricultural productivity in terms of quantity and quality (e.g., selection of drought-resistant crops and animals, development of new pesticides, yield-sensing technologies, simulation models of crop growth, in-vitro cell culture techniques)
Minimizing the effects of pests (weeds, insects, pathogens, nematodes) on crop or animal production systems.
Transformation of primary products into end-consumer products (e.g., production, preservation, and packaging of dairy products)
Prevention and correction of adverse environmental effects (e.g., soil degradation, waste management, bioremediation)
Theoretical production ecology, relating to crop production modeling
Traditional agricultural systems, sometimes termed subsistence agriculture, which feed most of the poorest people in the world. These systems are of interest as they sometimes retain a level of integration with natural ecological systems greater than that of industrial agriculture, which may be more sustainable than some modern agricultural systems.
Food production and demand on a global basis, with special attention paid to the major producers, such as China, India, Brazil, the USA and the EU.
Various sciences relating to agricultural resources and the environment (e.g. soil science, agroclimatology); biology of agricultural crops and animals (e.g. crop science, animal science and their included sciences, e.g. ruminant nutrition, farm animal welfare); such fields as agricultural economics and rural sociology; various disciplines encompassed in agricultural engineering.

Agricultural biotechnology[edit]
Agricultural biotechnology is a specific area of agricultural science involving the use of scientific tools and techniques, including genetic engineering, molecular markers, molecular diagnostics, vaccines, and tissue culture, to modify living organisms: plants, animals, and microorganisms.[1]
Fertilizer[edit]
One of the most common yield reducers is because of fertilizer not being applied in slightly higher quantities during transition period, the time it takes the soil to rebuild its aggregates and organic matter. Yields will decrease temporarily because of nitrogen being immobilized in the crop residue, which can take a few months to several years to decompose, depending on the crop's C to N ratio and the local environment
A local science[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


With the exception of theoretical agronomy, research in agronomy, more than in any other field, is strongly related to local areas. It can be considered a science of ecoregions, because it is closely linked to soil properties and climate, which are never exactly the same from one place to another. Many people think an agricultural production system relying on local weather, soil characteristics, and specific crops has to be studied locally. Others feel a need to know and understand production systems in as many areas as possible, and the human dimension of interaction with nature.
History of agricultural science[edit]
Main article: History of agricultural science
Agricultural science began with Gregor Mendel's genetic work, but in modern terms might be better dated from the chemical fertilizer outputs of plant physiological understanding in 18th-century Germany.[citation needed] In the United States, a scientific revolution in agriculture began with the Hatch Act of 1887, which used the term "agricultural science". The Hatch Act was driven by farmers' interest in knowing the constituents of early artificial fertilizer. The Smith-Hughes Act of 1917 shifted agricultural education back to its vocational roots, but the scientific foundation had been built.[2] After 1906, public expenditures on agricultural research in the US exceeded private expenditures for the next 44 years.[3]:xxi
Intensification of agriculture since the 1960s in developed and developing countries, often referred to as the Green Revolution, was closely tied to progress made in selecting and improving crops and animals for high productivity, as well as to developing additional inputs such as artificial fertilizers and phytosanitary products.
As the oldest and largest human intervention in nature, the environmental impact of agriculture in general and more recently intensive agriculture, industrial development, and population growth have raised many questions among agricultural scientists and have led to the development and emergence of new fields. These include technological fields that assume the solution to technological problems lies in better technology, such as integrated pest management, waste treatment technologies, landscape architecture, genomics, and agricultural philosophy fields that include references to food production as something essentially different from non-essential economic 'goods'. In fact, the interaction between these two approaches provide a fertile field for deeper understanding in agricultural science.
New technologies, such as biotechnology and computer science (for data processing and storage), and technological advances have made it possible to develop new research fields, including genetic engineering, agrophysics, improved statistical analysis, and precision farming. Balancing these, as above, are the natural and human sciences of agricultural science that seek to understand the human-nature interactions of traditional agriculture, including interaction of religion and agriculture, and the non-material components of agricultural production systems.
Prominent agricultural scientists[edit]




Norman Borlaug, father of the Green Revolution.



Robert Bakewell
Norman Borlaug
Luther Burbank
George Washington Carver
René Dumont
Sir Albert Howard
Kailas Nath Kaul
Justus von Liebig
Jay Lush
Gregor Mendel
Louis Pasteur
M. S. Swaminathan
Jethro Tull
Artturi Ilmari Virtanen
Eli Whitney
Sewall Wright

Agricultural science and agriculture crisis[edit]
Agriculture sciences seek to feed the world's population while preventing biosafety problems that may affect human health and the environment. This requires promoting good management of natural resources and respect for the environment, and increasingly concern for the psychological wellbeing of all concerned in the food production and consumption system.
Economic, environmental, and social aspects of agriculture sciences are subjects of ongoing debate. Recent crises (such as avian influenza, mad cow disease and issues such as the use of genetically modified organisms) illustrate the complexity and importance of this debate.
Fields or related disciplines[edit]





Agricultural biotechnology
Agricultural chemistry
Agricultural diversification
Agricultural education
Agricultural economics
Agricultural engineering
Agricultural geography
Agricultural philosophy
Agricultural marketing
Agricultural soil science
Agroecology
Agrophysics
Animal science

Animal breeding
Animal husbandry
Animal nutrition


Farm Management

Farm Production
Farm Planing
Agro Business Planing
Product Marketing And Trade


Agronomy

Botany
Theoretical production ecology
Horticulture
Plant breeding
Plant fertilization






Aquaculture
Biological engineering

Genetic engineering


Nematology
Microbiology

Plant pathology


Range management
Environmental science
Entomology
Food science

Human nutrition


Irrigation and water management
Soil science

Agrology


Waste management
Weed science





See also[edit]

Agriculture ministry
Agricultural sciences basic topics
Agroecology
American Society of Agronomy
Genomics of domestication
List of agriculture topics
History of agricultural science
Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences
International Assessment of Agricultural Science and Technology for Development
International Food Policy Research Institute, IFPRI
Research Institute of Crop Production (RICP) (in the Czech Republic)
University of Agricultural Sciences
National FFA Organization
Agricultural Research Council

Further reading[edit]

Agricultural Research, Livelihoods, and Poverty: Studies of Economic and Social Impacts in Six Countries Edited by Michelle Adato and Ruth Meinzen-Dick (2007), Johns Hopkins University Press Food Policy Report[4]
Claude Bourguignon, Regenerating the Soil: From Agronomy to Agrology, Other India Press, 2005
Pimentel David, Pimentel Marcia, Computer les kilocalories, Cérès, n. 59, sept-oct. 1977
Russell E. Walter, Soil conditions and plant growth, Longman group, London, New York 1973
Salamini Francesco, Oezkan Hakan, Brandolini Andrea, Schaefer-Pregl Ralf, Martin William, Genetics and geography of wild cereal domestication in the Near East, in Nature, vol. 3, ju. 2002
Saltini Antonio, Storia delle scienze agrarie, 4 vols, Bologna 1984-89, ISBN 88-206-2412-5, ISBN 88-206-2413-3, ISBN 88-206-2414-1, ISBN 88-206-2415-X
Vavilov Nicolai I. (Starr Chester K. editor), The Origin, Variation, Immunity and Breeding of Cultivated Plants. Selected Writings, in Chronica botanica, 13: 1-6, Waltham, Mass., 1949–50
Vavilov Nicolai I., World Resources of Cereals, Leguminous Seed Crops and Flax, Academy of Sciences of Urss, National Science Foundation, Washington, Israel Program for Scientific Translations, Jerusalem 1960
Winogradsky Serge, Microbiologie du sol. Problèmes et methodes. Cinquante ans de recherches, Masson & c.ie, Paris 1949

References[edit]


^ "What is Agricultural Biotechnology?" (PDF). Cornell University. Retrieved 3 February 2015. 
^ Hillison J. (1996). The Origins of Agriscience: Or Where Did All That Scientific Agriculture Come From?. Journal of Agricultural Education.
^ Huffman WE, Evenson RE. (2006). Science for Agriculture. Blackwell Publishing.
^ Agricultural research, livelihoods, and poverty | International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI)


External links[edit]

Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
Agricultural Research Service
Indian Council of Agricultural Research
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
International Livestock Research Institute
The National Agricultural Library (NAL) - The most comprehensive agricultural library in the world.
Crop Science Society of America
American Society of Agronomy
Soil Science Society of America
Agricultural Science Researchers, Jobs and Discussions
Information System for Agriculture and Food Research
South Dakota Agricultural Laboratories
NMSU Department of Entomology Plant Pathology and Weed Science





Authority control



GND: 4068473-8









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Agricultural_science&oldid=764851995"					
Categories: AgronomyAgricultureHidden categories: Use dmy dates from June 2013Articles needing additional references from July 2015All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2007Wikipedia articles with GND identifiersPages using ISBN magic links 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиDanskDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaIsiXhosaItalianoעבריתLatinaMagyarമലയാളംNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийසිංහලSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 11 February 2017, at 08:49.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.292","walltime":"0.385","ppvisitednodes":{"value":826,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":22934,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3729,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  295.951      1 -total"," 20.71%   61.279      1 Template:Reflist"," 17.88%   52.926      1 Template:Authority_control"," 16.23%   48.039      1 Template:Cite_web"," 15.17%   44.885      1 Template:Unreferenced_section"," 13.85%   41.004      1 Template:Unreferenced"," 13.79%   40.797      1 Template:Citation_needed"," 12.54%   37.098      1 Template:Ambox"," 12.45%   36.853      1 Template:Fix"," 11.80%   34.936      1 Template:Use_dmy_dates"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.127","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2830095,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1207","timestamp":"20170211084859","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":61,"wgHostname":"mw1212"});});
