 







Computer engineering

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on 1 February 2017.




					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"Hardware engineering" redirects here. For engineering of other types of hardware, see mechanical engineering. For engineering electrical systems, see electrical engineering.




The motherboard used in a HD DVD player, the result of computer engineering efforts.


Computer engineering is a discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to develop computer hardware and software.[1] Computer engineers usually have training in electronic engineering (or electrical engineering), software design, and hardware-software integration instead of only software engineering or electronic engineering. Computer engineers are involved in many hardware and software aspects of computing, from the design of individual microcontrollers, microprocessors, personal computers, and supercomputers, to circuit design. This field of engineering not only focuses on how computer systems themselves work, but also how they integrate into the larger picture.[2]
Usual tasks involving computer engineers include writing software and firmware for embedded microcontrollers, designing VLSI chips, designing analog sensors, designing mixed signal circuit boards, and designing operating systems. Computer engineers are also suited for robotics research, which relies heavily on using digital systems to control and monitor electrical systems like motors, communications, and sensors.
In many institutions, computer engineering students are allowed to choose areas of in-depth study in their junior and senior year, because the full breadth of knowledge used in the design and application of computers is beyond the scope of an undergraduate degree. Other institutions may require engineering students to complete one or two years of General Engineering before declaring computer engineering as their primary focus.[3][4][5][6]



Contents


1 History
2 Work

2.1 Computer software engineering
2.2 Computer hardware engineering


3 Specialty areas

3.1 Coding, cryptography, and information protection
3.2 Communications and wireless networks
3.3 Compilers and operating systems
3.4 Computational science and engineering
3.5 Computer networks, mobile computing, and distributed systems
3.6 Computer systems: architecture, parallel processing, and dependability
3.7 Computer vision and robotics
3.8 Embedded systems
3.9 Integrated circuits, VLSI design, testing and CAD
3.10 Signal, image and speech processing


4 Education
5 Job outlook in the United States

5.1 Computer software engineering
5.2 Computer hardware engineering


6 Similar occupations and fields
7 See also
8 References



History[edit]
The first computer engineering degree program in the United States was established at Case Western Reserve University in 1972. As of 2015[update], there were 238 ABET-accredited computer engineering programs in the US.[7] In Europe, accreditation of computer engineering schools is done by a variety of agencies part of the EQANIE network. Due to increasing job requirements for engineers who can concurrently design hardware, software, firmware, and manage all forms of computer systems used in industry, some tertiary institutions around the world offer a bachelor's degree generally called computer engineering. Both computer engineering and electronic engineering programs include analog and digital circuit design in their curriculum. As with most engineering disciplines, having a sound knowledge of mathematics and science is necessary for computer engineers.
Work[edit]
There are two major specialties in computer engineering: software and hardware.
Computer software engineering[edit]
Main article: Software engineering
Computer software engineers develop, design, and test software. Some software engineers design, construct, and maintain computer programs for companies. Some set up networks such as "intranets" for companies. Others make or install new software or upgrade computer systems. Computer software engineers can also work in application design. This involves designing or coding new programs and applications to meet the needs of a business or individual. Computer software engineers can also work as freelancers and sell their software products/applications to an enterprise/individual.[8]
Computer hardware engineering[edit]
Most computer hardware engineers research, develop, design, and test various computer equipment. This can range from circuit boards and microprocessors to routers. Some update existing computer equipment to be more efficient and work with newer software. Most computer hardware engineers work in research laboratories and high-tech manufacturing firms. Some also work for the federal government. According to BLS, 95% of computer hardware engineers work in metropolitan areas.[citation needed] They generally work full-time. Approximately 33% of their work requires more than 40 hours a week. The median salary for employed qualified computer hardware engineers (2012) was $100,920 per year or $48.52 per hour. Computer hardware engineers held 83,300 jobs in 2012 in the USA.[9]
Specialty areas[edit]
There are many specialty areas in the field of computer engineering.
Coding, cryptography, and information protection[edit]
Main article: Information security
Computer engineers work in coding, cryptography, and information protection to develop new methods for protecting various information, such as digital images and music, fragmentation, copyright infringement and other forms of tampering. Examples include work on wireless communications, multi-antenna systems, optical transmission, and digital watermarking.[10]
Communications and wireless networks[edit]
Main articles: Communications networks and Wireless network
Those focusing on communications and wireless networks, work advancements in telecommunications systems and networks (especially wireless networks), modulation and error-control coding, and information theory. High-speed network design, interference suppression and modulation, design and analysis of fault-tolerant system, and storage and transmission schemes are all a part of this specialty.[10]
Compilers and operating systems[edit]
Main articles: Compiler and Operating system
This specialty focuses on compilers and operating systems design and development. Engineers in this field develop new operating system architecture, program analysis techniques, and new techniques to assure quality. Examples of work in this field includes post-link-time code transformation algorithm development and new operating system development.[10]
Computational science and engineering[edit]
Main article: Computational science and engineering
Computational Science and Engineering is a relatively new discipline. According to the Sloan Career Cornerstone Center, individuals working in this area, "computational methods are applied to formulate and solve complex mathematical problems in engineering and the physical and the social sciences. Examples include aircraft design, the plasma processing of nanometer features on semiconductor wafers, VLSI circuit design, radar detection systems, ion transport through biological channels, and much more".[10]
Computer networks, mobile computing, and distributed systems[edit]
Main articles: Computer network, Mobile computing, and Distributed computing
In this specialty, engineers build integrated environments for computing, communications, and information access. Examples include shared-channel wireless networks, adaptive resource management in various systems, and improving the quality of service in mobile and ATM environments. Some other examples include work on wireless network systems and fast Ethernet cluster wired systems.[10]
Computer systems: architecture, parallel processing, and dependability[edit]
Main articles: Computer architecture, Parallel computing, and Dependability
Engineers working in computer systems work on research projects that allow for reliable, secure, and high-performance computer systems. Projects such as designing processors for multi-threading and parallel processing are included in this field. Other examples of work in this field include development of new theories, algorithms, and other tools that add performance to computer systems.[10]
Computer vision and robotics[edit]
Main articles: Computer vision and Robotics
In this specialty, computer engineers focus on developing visual sensing technology to sense an environment, representation of an environment, and manipulation of the environment. The gathered three-dimensional information is then implemented to perform a variety of tasks. These include, improved human modeling, image communication, and human-computer interfaces, as well as devices such as special-purpose cameras with versatile vision sensors.[10]
Embedded systems[edit]




Examples of devices that use embedded systems.


Main article: Embedded systems
Individuals working in this area design technology for enhancing the speed, reliability, and performance of systems. Embedded systems are found in many devices from a small FM radio to the space shuttle. According to the Sloan Cornerstone Career Center, ongoing developments in embedded systems include "automated vehicles and equipment to conduct search and rescue, automated transportation systems, and human-robot coordination to repair equipment in space."[10]
Integrated circuits, VLSI design, testing and CAD[edit]
Main articles: Integrated circuit and Very-large-scale integration
This specialty of computer engineering requires adequate knowledge of electronics and electrical systems. Engineers working in this area work on enhancing the speed, reliability, and energy efficiency of next-generation very-large-scale integrated (VLSI) circuits and microsystems. An example of this specialty is work done on reducing the power consumption of VLSI algorithms and architecture.[10]
Signal, image and speech processing[edit]
Main articles: Signal processing, Image processing, and Speech processing
Computer engineers in this area develop improvements in human–computer interaction, including speech recognition and synthesis, medical and scientific imaging, or communications systems. Other work in this area includes computer vision development such as recognition of human facial features.[10]
Education[edit]
Most entry-level computer engineering jobs require at least a bachelor's degree in computer engineering. Sometimes a degree in electronic engineering is accepted, due to the similarity of the two fields. Because hardware engineers commonly work with computer software systems, a background in computer programming usually is needed. According to BLS, "a computer engineering major is similar to electrical engineering but with some computer science courses added to the curriculum".[9] Some large firms or specialized jobs require a master's degree.
It is also important for computer engineers to keep up with rapid advances in technology. Therefore, many continue learning throughout their careers. This can be helpful, especially when it comes to learning new skills or improving existing ones. For example, as the relative cost of fixing a bug increases the further along it is in the software development cycle, there can be greater cost savings attributed to developing and testing for quality code as soon as possible in the process, and particularly before release.[11]
Job outlook in the United States[edit]
Computer software engineering[edit]
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), "computer applications software engineers and computer systems software engineers are projected to be among the faster than average growing occupations" from 2014–24, with a projected growth rate of 17%.[12] This is down from the 2012 to 2022 BLS estimate of 22% for software developers.[8][13] And, further down from the 30% 2010 to 2020 BLS estimate.[14] In addition, growing concerns over cyber security add up to put computer software engineering high above the average rate of increase for all fields. However, some of the work will be outsourced in foreign countries. Due to this, job growth will not be as fast as during the last decade, as jobs that would have gone to computer software engineers in the United States would instead go to computer software engineers in countries such as India.[15] In addition the BLS Job Outlook for Computer Programmers, 2014-24 has an -8% (a decline in their words)[15] for those who program computers (i.e. embedded systems) who are not computer application developers.
Computer hardware engineering[edit]
According to the BLS, Job Outlook employment for computer hardware engineers, 2014-24 is 3% ("Slower than average" in their own words when compared to other occupations)"[16] and is down from 7% for 2012 to 2022 BLS estimate[17] and is further down from 9% in the BLS 2010 to 2020 estimate." Today, computer hardware is somehow equal to Electronic and Computer Engineering (ECE) and has divided to many subcategories, the most significant of them is Embedded system design.[9]
Similar occupations and fields[edit]

Computer programming
Electrical engineering
Software development
Systems analyst

See also[edit]

List of universities with computer engineering programs

References[edit]


^ IEEE Computer Society; ACM (December 12, 2004). Computer Engineering 2004: Curriculum Guidelines for Undergraduate Degree Programs in Computer Engineering (PDF). p. iii. Retrieved December 17, 2012. Computer System engineering has traditionally been viewed as a combination of both electronic engineering (EE) and computer science (CS). 
^ Trinity College Dublin. "What is Computer System Engineering". Retrieved April 21, 2006. , "Computer engineers need not only to understand how computer systems themselves work, but also how they integrate into the larger picture. Consider the car. A modern car contains many separate computer systems for controlling such things as the engine timing, the brakes and the air bags. To be able to design and implement such a car, the computer engineer needs a broad theoretical understanding of all these various subsystems & how they interact.
^ "Changing Majors @ Clemson". Clemson University. Retrieved September 20, 2011. 
^ "Declaring a College of Engineering Major". University of Arkansas. Retrieved September 20, 2011. 
^ "Degree Requirements". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved September 20, 2011. 
^ "Programas de Materias" (in Spanish). Universidad Católica Argentina. 
^ "Find an ABET-Accredited Program | ABET". main.abet.org. Retrieved 2015-11-29. 
^ a b "Computer Software Engineer". Bureau of Labor Statistics. March 19, 2010. Archived from the original on July 26, 2013. Retrieved July 20, 2012. 
^ a b c "Computer Hardware Engineers". Bureau of Labor Statistics. January 8, 2014. Retrieved July 20, 2012. 
^ a b c d e f g h i j "Computer Engineering Overview" (PDF). Sloan Career Cornerstone Center. Retrieved July 20, 2012. 
^ https://www.feabhas.com (PDF). Feabhas http://www.feabhas.com/sites/default/files/uploads/News/Feabhas_Infographic_FINAL.pdf.  |first1= missing |last1= in Authors list (help); Missing or empty |title= (help); External link in |website= (help)
^ "Software Developers : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics". 
^ http://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm Retrieved 10/01/2014
^ "Software Developers". Bureau of Labor Statistics. January 8, 2014. Retrieved July 21, 2012. 
^ a b "Computer Programmers : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics". 
^ "Computer Hardware Engineers : Occupational Outlook Handbook: : U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics". 
^ http://www.bls.gov/ooh/architecture-and-engineering/computer-hardware-engineers.htm Retrieved 10/01/2014








v
t
e


Engineering






Civil



Architectural
Construction
Earthquake
Hydraulic
Mining
Structural
Geotechnical
Transportation
Environmental








Mechanical



Aerospace
Acoustical
Automotive
Marine
Mechatronics
Railway








Electrical



Computer
Control
Electronics
Electromechanics
Optical
Power
Photonics
Telecommunications
Radio Frequency








Chemical



Biochemical
Biological
Molecular
Nanotechnology
Process
Reaction
Thermodynamics
Transport phenomena








Interdisciplinarity



Audio
Engineering mathematics
Biomedical
Fire
Industrial
Materials science
Robotics
Military
Nuclear
Security
Systems
Privacy











List of engineering branches
  Category:Engineering
   Engineering portal












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


Levels of academic degree






Undergraduate




ISCED level 5



Associate degree
Foundation degree
Higher National Diploma/Diploma of Higher Education/Certificate of Higher Education








ISCED level 6



Bachelor's degree
Honours degree











Postgraduate




ISCED level 7



Master's degree
Magister degree
Postgraduate certificate/diploma
Diplom degree
Specialist degree
Engineer's degree








ISCED level 8



Doctorate
Magister degree
Candidate of Sciences











Other




Postdoctoral



Higher doctorate
Habilitation
Tenure
Doktor nauk








No dominant classification



Laurea
Licentiate
Professional degree
Graduate certificate/diploma
Terminal degree








Unearned



Honorary degree
Ad eundem degree












Authority control



LCCN: sh85029495
GND: 4196734-3









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_engineering&oldid=763166508"					
Categories: Computer engineeringElectrical engineeringElectronic engineeringComputer scienceEngineering disciplinesHidden categories: CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 errors: missing author or editorPages with citations lacking titlesCS1 errors: external linksPages with citations having bare URLsWikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2015All articles containing potentially dated statementsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2015Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


AfrikaansአማርኛالعربيةAragonésAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБългарскиBosanskiCatalàCymraegDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתКыргызчаMagyarमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語PolskiPortuguêsРусскийScotsShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSoomaaligaСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtWinaray中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 1 February 2017, at 17:56.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.324","walltime":"0.541","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1614,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":131882,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":910,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":7,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  439.964      1 -total"," 37.29%  164.084      1 Template:Pp-pc1"," 22.90%  100.741      1 Template:Reflist"," 15.04%   66.164      9 Template:Navbox"," 11.29%   49.660     14 Template:Cite_web","  7.58%   33.328      1 Template:Authority_control","  7.43%   32.674      1 Template:Citation_needed","  6.72%   29.583      1 Template:Fix","  6.55%   28.829      1 Template:Cite_book","  6.05%   26.613      1 Template:Engineering_fields"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.154","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":4980548,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1186","timestamp":"20170206215729","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":75,"wgHostname":"mw1209"});});
