 






Construction

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Construction (disambiguation).




In large construction projects, such as this skyscraper in Melbourne, Australia, cranes are essential.


Construction is the process of constructing a building or infrastructure.[1] Construction differs from manufacturing in that manufacturing typically involves mass production of similar items without a designated purchaser, while construction typically takes place on location for a known client.[2] Construction as an industry comprises six to nine percent of the gross domestic product of developed countries.[3] Construction starts with planning,[citation needed] design, and financing; and continues until the project is built and ready for use.
Large-scale construction requires collaboration across multiple disciplines. An architect normally manages the job, and a construction manager, design engineer, construction engineer or project manager supervises it. For the successful execution of a project, effective planning is essential. Those involved with the design and execution of the infrastructure in question must consider zoning requirements, the environmental impact of the job, the successful scheduling, budgeting, construction-site safety, availability and transportation of building materials, logistics, inconvenience to the public caused by construction delays and bidding, etc. The largest construction projects are referred to as megaprojects.



Contents


1 Etymology
2 Types of construction

2.1 Building construction
2.2 Residential construction
2.3 New construction techniques and sustainability


3 Construction processes

3.1 Design team
3.2 Financial advisors
3.3 Legal aspects
3.4 Interaction of expertise
3.5 Procurement

3.5.1 Traditional
3.5.2 Design-build
3.5.3 Management procurement systems




4 Authority having jurisdiction
5 Industry characteristics

5.1 Careers


6 Safety
7 History
8 Construction phases
9 List of countries by the largest output in construction
10 See also
11 References



Etymology[edit]
Construction is a general term meaning the art and science to form objects, systems, or organizations,[4] and comes from Latin constructionem (from com- "together" and struere "to pile up") and Old French construction.[5] Construction is used as a verb: the act of building, and a noun: how a building was built, the nature of its structure.
Types of construction[edit]




Industrial assemblage of a thermal oxidizer in the United States of America.






Military residential unit construction by U.S. Navy personnel in Afghanistan


In general, there are three sectors of construction: buildings, infrastructure and industrial.[6] Building construction is usually further divided into residential and non-residential (commercial/institutional). Infrastructure is often called heavy/highway, heavy civil or heavy engineering. It includes large public works, dams, bridges, highways, water/wastewater and utility distribution. Industrial includes refineries, process chemical, power generation, mills and manufacturing plants. There are other ways to break the industry into sectors or markets.[7]
Engineering News-Record (ENR) is a trade magazine for the construction industry. Each year, ENR compiles and reports on data about the size of design and construction companies. They publish a list of the largest companies in the United States (Top-40) and also a list the largest global firms (Top-250, by amount of work they are doing outside their home country). In 2014, ENR compiled the data in nine market segments. It was divided as transportation, petroleum, buildings, power, industrial, water, manufacturing, sewer/waste, telecom, hazardous waste plus a tenth category for other projects.[8] In their reporting on the Top 400, they used data on transportation, sewer, hazardous waste and water to rank firms as heavy contractors.[9]
The Standard Industrial Classification and the newer North American Industry Classification System have a classification system for companies that perform or otherwise engage in construction. To recognize the differences of companies in this sector, it is divided into three subsectors: building construction, heavy and civil engineering construction, and specialty trade contractors. There are also categories for construction service firms (e.g., engineering, architecture) and construction managers (firms engaged in managing construction projects without assuming direct financial responsibility for completion of the construction project).[10][11]
Building construction[edit]
Building construction is the process of adding structure to real property or construction of buildings. The majority of building construction jobs are small renovations, such as addition of a room, or renovation of a bathroom. Often, the owner of the property acts as laborer, paymaster, and design team for the entire project. Although building construction projects typically include various common elements, such as design, financial, estimating and legal considerations, many projects of varying sizes reach undesirable end results, such as structural collapse, cost overruns, and/or litigation. For this reason, those with experience in the field make detailed plans and maintain careful oversight during the project to ensure a positive outcome.




The National Cement Share Company of Ethiopia's new plant in Dire Dawa.


Commercial building construction is procured privately or publicly utilizing various delivery methodologies, including cost estimating, hard bid, negotiated price, traditional, management contracting, construction management-at-risk, design & build and design-build bridging.
Residential construction practices, technologies, and resources must conform to local building authority regulations and codes of practice. Materials readily available in the area generally dictate the construction materials used (e.g. brick versus stone, versus timber). Cost of construction on a per square meter (or per square foot) basis for houses can vary dramatically based on site conditions, local regulations, economies of scale (custom designed homes are often more expensive to build) and the availability of skilled tradespeople. As residential construction (as well as all other types of construction) can generate a lot of waste, careful planning again is needed here.
Residential construction[edit]
The most popular method of residential construction in North America is wood-framed construction. Typical construction steps for a single-family or small multi-family house are:

Develop floor plans and obtain a materials list for estimations (more recently performed with estimating software)
Obtain government building approval if necessary
Clear the building site
Survey to stake out for the foundation
Excavate the foundation and dig footers.
Pour a foundation and footers with concrete
Build the main load-bearing structure out of thick pieces of wood and possibly metal I-beams for large spans with few supports. See framing (construction)
Add floor and ceiling joists and install subfloor panels
Cover outer walls and roof in OSB or plywood and a water-resistive barrier.
Install roof shingles or other covering for flat roof
Cover the walls with siding, typically vinyl, wood, or brick veneer but possibly stone or other materials
Install windows





Framing



Frame interior walls with wooden 2x4s
Add internal plumbing, HVAC, electrical, and natural gas utilities
Building inspector visits if necessary to approve utilities and framing
Install insulation and interior drywall panels (cementboard for wet areas) and to complete walls and ceilings
Install bathroom fixtures
Spackle, prime, and paint interior walls and ceilings
Additional tiling on top of cementboard for wet areas, such as the bathroom and kitchen backsplash
Install final floor covering, such as floor tile, carpet, or wood flooring
Install major appliances
Unless the original owners are building the house, at this point it is typically sold or rented.

New construction techniques and sustainability[edit]
As efficiency codes have come into effect in recent years, new construction technologies and methods have emerged. University Construction Management departments are on the cutting edge of the newest methods of construction intended to improve efficiency, performance and reduce construction waste.
New techniques of building construction are being researched, made possible by advances in 3D printing technology. In a form of additive building construction, similar to the additive manufacturing techniques for manufactured parts, building printing is making it possible to flexibly construct small commercial buildings and private habitations in around 20 hours, with built-in plumbing and electrical facilities, in one continuous build, using large 3D printers.[12] Working versions of 3D-printing building technology are already printing 2 metres (6 ft 7 in) of building material per hour as of January 2013[update], with the next-generation printers capable of 3.5 metres (11 ft) per hour, sufficient to complete a building in a week.[13] Dutch architect Janjaap Ruijssenaars's performative architecture 3D-printed building was scheduled to be built in 2014.[14]
In the current trend of sustainable construction, the recent movements of New Urbanism and New Classical Architecture promote a sustainable approach towards construction, that appreciates and develops smart growth, architectural tradition and classical design.[15][16] This is in contrast to modernist and short-lived globally uniform architecture, as well as opposing solitary housing estates and suburban sprawl.[17] Both trends started in the 1980s.
The construction site may be shut down due to bad weather. Erecting scaffolded tents over the site may reduce the number of lost work days, increasing productivity.[18][19][20]
Construction processes[edit]
Design team[edit]




Shasta Dam under construction in June 1942


In the modern industrialized world, construction usually involves the translation of designs into reality. A formal design team may be assembled to plan the physical proceedings, and to integrate those proceedings with the other parts. The design usually consists of drawings and specifications, usually prepared by a design team including Architect, civil engineers, mechanical engineers, electrical engineers, structural engineers, fire protection engineers, planning consultants, architectural consultants, and archaeological consultants. The design team is most commonly employed by (i.e. in contract with) the property owner. Under this system, once the design is completed by the design team, a number of construction companies or construction management companies may then be asked to make a bid for the work, either based directly on the design, or on the basis of drawings and a bill of quantities provided by a quantity surveyor. Following evaluation of bids, the owner typically awards a contract to the most cost efficient bidder.
The best modern trend in design is toward integration of previously separated specialties, especially among large firms. In the past, architects, interior designers, engineers, developers, construction managers, and general contractors were more likely to be entirely separate companies, even in the larger firms. Presently, a firm that is nominally an "architecture" or "construction management" firm may have experts from all related fields as employees, or to have an associated company that provides each necessary skill. Thus, each such firm may offer itself as "one-stop shopping" for a construction project, from beginning to end. This is designated as a "design build" contract where the contractor is given a performance specification and must undertake the project from design to construction, while adhering to the performance specifications.
Several project structures can assist the owner in this integration, including design-build, partnering and construction management. In general, each of these project structures allows the owner to integrate the services of architects, interior designers, engineers and constructors throughout design and construction. In response, many companies are growing beyond traditional offerings of design or construction services alone and are placing more emphasis on establishing relationships with other necessary participants through the design-build process.
The increasing complexity of construction projects creates the need for design professionals trained in all phases of the project's life-cycle and develop an appreciation of the building as an advanced technological system requiring close integration of many sub-systems and their individual components, including sustainability. Building engineering is an emerging discipline that attempts to meet this new challenge.
Financial advisors[edit]


Trump International Hotel and Tower (Chicago)


May 23, 2006



September 14, 2007 (3 months before completion)




Construction projects can suffer from preventable financial problems. Underbids happen when builders ask for too little money to complete the project. Cash flow problems exist when the present amount of funding cannot cover the current costs for labour and materials, and because they are a matter of having sufficient funds at a specific time, can arise even when the overall total is enough. Fraud is a problem in many fields, but is notoriously prevalent in the construction field.[21] Financial planning for the project is intended to ensure that a solid plan with adequate safeguards and contingency plans are in place before the project is started and is required to ensure that the plan is properly executed over the life of the project.
Mortgage bankers, accountants, and cost engineers are likely participants in creating an overall plan for the financial management of the building construction project. The presence of the mortgage banker is highly likely, even in relatively small projects since the owner's equity in the property is the most obvious source of funding for a building project. Accountants act to study the expected monetary flow over the life of the project and to monitor the payouts throughout the process. Cost engineers and estimators apply expertise to relate the work and materials involved to a proper valuation. Cost overruns with government projects have occurred when the contractor identified change orders or project changes that increased costs, which are not subject to competition from other firms as they have already been eliminated from consideration after the initial bid.[22]
Large projects can involve highly complex financial plans and often start with a conceptual estimate performed by a building estimator. As portions of a project are completed, they may be sold, supplanting one lender or owner for another, while the logistical requirements of having the right trades and materials available for each stage of the building construction project carries forward. In many English-speaking countries, but not the United States, projects typically use quantity surveyors.
Legal aspects[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2006) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


Main article: Construction law




Construction along Ontario Highway 401, widening the road from six to twelve travel lanes






Construction site with tubes


A construction project must fit into the legal framework governing the property. These include governmental regulations on the use of property, and obligations that are created in the process of construction.
The project must adhere to zoning and building code requirements. Constructing a project that fails to adhere to codes does not benefit the owner. Some legal requirements come from malum in se considerations, or the desire to prevent things that are indisputably bad – bridge collapses or explosions. Other legal requirements come from malum prohibitum considerations, or things that are a matter of custom or expectation, such as isolating businesses to a business district and residences to a residential district. An attorney may seek changes or exemptions in the law that governs the land where the building will be built, either by arguing that a rule is inapplicable (the bridge design will not cause a collapse), or that the custom is no longer needed (acceptance of live-work spaces has grown in the community).
A construction project is a complex net of contracts and other legal obligations, each of which all parties must carefully consider. A contract is the exchange of a set of obligations between two or more parties, but it is not so simple a matter as trying to get the other side to agree to as much as possible in exchange for as little as possible. The time element in construction means that a delay costs money, and in cases of bottlenecks, the delay can be extremely expensive. Thus, the contracts must be designed to ensure that each side is capable of performing the obligations set out. Contracts that set out clear expectations and clear paths to accomplishing those expectations are far more likely to result in the project flowing smoothly, whereas poorly drafted contracts lead to confusion and collapse.
Legal advisors in the beginning of a construction project seek to identify ambiguities and other potential sources of trouble in the contract structure, and to present options for preventing problems. Throughout the process of the project, they work to avoid and resolve conflicts that arise. In each case, the lawyer facilitates an exchange of obligations that matches the reality of the project.
Interaction of expertise[edit]




Apartment complex under construction in Daegu, South Korea


Design, finance, and legal aspects overlap and interrelate. The design must be not only structurally sound and appropriate for the use and location, but must also be financially possible to build, and legal to use. The financial structure must accommodate the need for building the design provided, and must pay amounts that are legally owed. The legal structure must integrate the design into the surrounding legal framework, and enforce the financial consequences of the construction process.
Procurement[edit]
Procurement describes the merging of activities undertaken by the client to obtain a building. There are many different methods of construction procurement; however the three most common types of procurement are traditional (design-bid-build), design-build and management contracting.
There is also a growing number of new forms of procurement that involve relationship contracting where the emphasis is on a co-operative relationship between the principal and contractor and other stakeholders within a construction project. New forms include partnering such as Public-Private Partnering (PPPs) aka private finance initiatives (PFIs) and alliances such as "pure" or "project" alliances and "impure" or "strategic" alliances. The focus on co-operation is to ameliorate the many problems that arise from the often highly competitive and adversarial practices within the construction industry.
Traditional[edit]
Main article: Design–bid–build
This is the most common method of construction procurement and is well established and recognized. In this arrangement, the architect or engineer acts as the project coordinator. His or her role is to design the works, prepare the specifications and produce construction drawings, administer the contract, tender the works, and manage the works from inception to completion. There are direct contractual links between the architect's client and the main contractor. Any subcontractor has a direct contractual relationship with the main contractor. The procedure continues until the building is ready to occupy.
Design-build[edit]
Main article: Design-build









Construction of the Phase-1 (first two towers) of the
Havelock City Project, Sri Lanka


This approach has become more common in recent years, and involves the client contracting a single entity to both provide a design and to build that design. In some cases, the design-build package can also include finding the site, arranging funding and applying for all necessary statutory consents.
The owner produces a list of requirements for a project, giving an overall view of the project's goals. Several D&B contractors present different ideas about how to accomplish these goals. The owner selects the ideas he or she likes best and hires the appropriate contractor. Often, it is not just one contractor, but a consortium of several contractors working together. Once these have been hired, they begin building the first phase of the project. As they build phase 1, they design phase 2. This is in contrast to a design-bid-build contract, where the project is completely designed by the owner, then bid on, then completed.
Kent Hansen pointed out that state departments of transportation usually use design build contracts as a way of progressing projects when states lack the skills-resources. In such departments, design build contracts are usually employed for very large projects.[23]
Management procurement systems[edit]
Main article: Construction management
In this arrangement the client plays an active role in the procurement system by entering into separate contracts with the designer (architect or engineer), the construction manager, and individual trade contractors. The client takes on the contractual role, while the construction or project manager provides the active role of managing the separate trade contracts, and ensuring that they complete all work smoothly and effectively together.
Management procurement systems are often used to speed up the procurement processes, allow the client greater flexibility in design variation throughout the contract, give the ability to appoint individual work contractors, separate contractual responsibility on each individual throughout the contract, and to provide greater client control.
In recent time, construction software starts to get traction - as it digitizes construction industry. Among solutions, there are for example: Procore, GenieBelt, PlanGrid, etc.
Authority having jurisdiction[edit]
See also: Planning permission
In construction, the authority having jurisdiction (AHJ) is the governmental agency or sub-agency that regulates the construction process. In most cases, this is the municipality where the building is located. However, construction performed for supra-municipal authorities are usually regulated directly by the owning authority, which becomes the AHJ.




Construction on the Federal Reserve building in Kansas City, Missouri


Before the foundation can be dug, contractors are typically required to verify and have existing utility lines marked, either by the utilities themselves or through a company specializing in such services. This lessens the likelihood of damage to the existing electrical, water, sewage, phone, and cable facilities, which could cause outages and potentially hazardous situations. During the construction of a building, the municipal building inspector inspects the building periodically to ensure that the construction adheres to the approved plans and the local building code. Once construction is complete and a final inspection has been passed, an occupancy permit may be issued.
An operating building must remain in compliance with the fire code. The fire code is enforced by the local fire department or a municipal code enforcement office.
Changes made to a building that affect safety, including its use, expansion, structural integrity, and fire protection items, usually require approval of the AHJ for review concerning the building code.
Industry characteristics[edit]
In the United States, the industry in 2014 has around $960 billion in annual revenue according to statistics tracked by the Census Bureau, of which $680 billion is private (split evenly between residential and nonresidential) and the remainder is government.[24] As of 2005, there were about 667,000 firms employing 1 million contractors (200,000 general contractors, 38,000 heavy, and 432,000 specialty); the average contractor employed fewer than 10 employees.[25] As a whole, the industry employed an estimated 5.8 million as of April 2013, with a 13.2% unemployment rate.[26] In the United States, approximately 828,000 women were employed in the construction industry as of 2011.[27]
Careers[edit]




Helicopter view of the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array (ALMA) Operations Support Facility (OSF) construction site






Ironworkers erecting the steel frame of a new building at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston






A truck operator at Al Gamil, the largest construction company in Djibouti.


There are many routes to the different careers within the construction industry. These three main tiers are based on educational background and training, which vary by country:

Unskilled and semi-skilled – General site labor with little or no construction qualifications.
Skilled – Tradesmen who've served apprenticeships, typically in labor unions, and on-site managers who possess extensive knowledge and experience in their craft or profession.
Technical and management – Personnel with the greatest educational qualifications, usually graduate degrees, trained to design, manage and instruct the construction process.

Skilled occupations include carpenters, electricians, plumbers, ironworkers, masons, and many other manual crafts, as well as those involved in project management. In the UK these require further education qualifications, often in vocational subject areas. These qualifications are either obtained directly after the completion of compulsory education or through "on the job" apprenticeship training.[28] In the UK, 8500 construction-related apprenticeships were commenced in 2007.[29]
Technical and specialized occupations require more training as a greater technical knowledge is required. These professions also hold more legal responsibility. A short list of the main careers with an outline of the educational requirements are given below:

Architect – Typically holds 1, undergraduate 3 year degree in architecture + 1, post-graduate 2 year degree (DipArch or BArch) in architecture plus 24 months experience within the industry. To use the title "architect" the individual must be registered on the Architects Registration Board register of Architects.
Civil engineer – Typically holds a degree in a related subject. The Chartered Engineer qualification is controlled by the Engineering Council, and is often achieved through membership of the Institution of Civil Engineers. A new university graduate must hold a master's degree to become chartered; persons with bachelor's degrees may become an Incorporated Engineer.
Building services engineer – Often referred to as an "M&E Engineer" typically holds a degree in mechanical or electrical engineering. Chartered Engineer status is governed by the Engineering Council, mainly through the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers.
Project manager – Typically holds a 4-year or greater higher education qualification, but are often also qualified in another field such as architecture, civil engineering or quantity surveying.
Structural engineer – Typically holds a bachelor's or master's degree in structural engineering. A P.ENG is required from the Professional Engineers Ontario (Canada). New university graduates must hold a master's degree to gain chartered status from the Engineering Council, mainly through the Institution of Structural Engineers (UK).
Quantity surveyor – Typically holds a bachelor's degree in quantity surveying. Chartered status is gained from the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Civil estimators are professionals who typically have a background in civil engineering, construction project management, or construction supervision.

In 2010 a salary survey revealed the differences in remuneration between different roles, sectors and locations in the construction and built environment industry.[30] The results showed that areas of particularly strong growth in the construction industry, such as the Middle East, yield higher average salaries than in the UK for example. The average earning for a professional in the construction industry in the Middle East, across all sectors, job types and levels of experience, is £42,090, compared to £26,719 in the UK.[31] This trend is not necessarily due to the fact that more affluent roles are available, however, as architects with 14 or more years experience working in the Middle East earn on average £43,389 per annum, compared to £40,000 in the UK.[31] Some construction workers in the US/Canada have made more than $100,000 annually, depending on their trade.[32]
Safety[edit]
See also: Construction site safety




At-risk workers without appropriate safety equipment


Construction is one of the most dangerous occupations in the world, incurring more occupational fatalities than any other sector in both the United States and in the European Union.[33][34] In 2009, the fatal occupational injury rate among construction workers in the United States was nearly three times that for all workers.[33] Falls are one of the most common causes of fatal and non-fatal injuries among construction workers.[33] Proper safety equipment such as harnesses and guardrails and procedures such as securing ladders and inspecting scaffolding can curtail the risk of occupational injuries in the construction industry.[35] Other major causes of fatalities in the construction industry include electrocution, transportation accidents, and trench cave-ins.[36]




Roofing requires a very high level of safety


Other safety risks for workers in construction include hearing loss due to high noise exposure, musculoskeletal injury, chemical exposure, and high levels of stress.[27]
History[edit]




A picture of a building under construction in India.


Main article: History of construction
See also: History of architecture
The first huts and shelters were constructed by hand or with simple tools. As cities grew during the Bronze Age, a class of professional craftsmen, like bricklayers and carpenters, appeared. Occasionally, slaves were used for construction work. In the Middle Ages, these were organized into guilds. In the 19th century, steam-powered machinery appeared, and later diesel- and electric powered vehicles such as cranes, excavators and bulldozers.
Fast-track construction has been increasingly popular in the 21st century. Some estimates suggest that 40% of construction projects are now fast-track construction.[37]
Construction phases[edit]

Vision/fantasy/idea - a concept never intended to be built, may be an aesthetic or structural design exercise
Proposed - a building concept that is under review by the building owner and by government
Approved - a building concept that will be constructed in the near future. If the proposed building is not approved then the proposal may be amended and resubmitted, or it may be deferred or cancelled.
Design - the specification of what is to be built in sufficient detail to be used as the basis as a contract between the owner and a contractor
Procurement - the selection of the contractor or contractors to carry out the construction. This may be by competitive tendering.
Diversions - before construction can start any services on the site which must be kept operational to serve other adjacent sites must be diverted so they run outside the footprint of the new building. This can include drainage, water and gas piped services and power and communication cables.
Under-construction - a fully designed building currently being built
Ground works - construction work below ground level including the construction of basements and foundations
Topped-out - a fully designed building where construction has reached the highest point of the building
Fitting out - installation of the decorative, non-structural elements once the building main structure is complete. This includes painting, ceilings, light fittings etc.
Commissioning or setting to work - Once the building Mechanical, electrical, plumbing, communications, and building control systems are installed they then need to be tested and adjusted so they deliver the required performance. In modern buildings this can take some time during which little seems to be going on but if this is not done properly then these systems will not deliver their design performance leading to hot and cold spots, spurious alarms, higher energy bills, and systems failing during emergencies
Substantial Completion / Beneficial Occupancy - a point when the work is sufficiently complete so that the Owner can occupy (Items noted during inspection 'punch list' or 'snag list' may still be corrected)
Complete/built - a fully designed building that has been fully built, excluding future expansions (punch list items all completed)
Building Operation - All those day-to-day activities need to ensure the building can be used. In simple buildings this means little more than cleaning but in more complicated buildings this is a large scale operation employing a large team of staff. If they do their job right then you hardly notice them.
Maintenance - works to ensure the building continues to operate in accordance with its design, including replacing elements which are approaching the end of their useful life
Repair - replacing building elements which have been damaged or which have failed to restore the building to its as-built state
Renovation - modification to the building. This can be minor modifications that are carried out while the building is occupied or major works where only the structural elements are kept and the building is out of use for years
Demolition - destruction of the building which may include the salvage of some elements for reuse elsewhere.

List of countries by the largest output in construction[edit]

List of countries with the largest construction output in 2015

Economy

Construction output in 2015 (billions in USD)



(01)  India



849



(02)  United States



599



(03)  China



569



(04)  Japan



333



(05)  France



147



(06)  Germany



143



(07)  United Kingdom



131



(08)  Canada



131



(09)  Australia



115



(10)  Russia



111



(11)  Brazil



109



(12)  Italy



107



(13)  Spain



104



(14)  Indonesia



93



(15)  Mexico



92



(16)  South Korea



58



(17)  Turkey



35



(18)  United Arab Emirates



34



(19)  Venezuela



34



(20)  Netherlands



34



(21)  Poland



34



(22)   Switzerland



33



(23)  Saudi Arabia



32



(24)  Iran



29



(25)  Colombia



29




The twenty-five largest countries in the world by construction output (2012)[38]



See also[edit]



Look up construction in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.



Index of construction articles
List of construction trades
Outline of construction
Real estate development
Site survey
Structural robustness
Agile construction

References[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Construction.




Library resources about
Construction





Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries






^ Compare: "Construction", Merriam-Webster.com, Merriam-Webster, retrieved 2016-02-16, [...] the act or process of building something (such as a house or road) [...]. 
^ Halpin, Daniel W.; Senior, Bolivar A. (2010), Construction Management (4 ed.), Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, p. 9, ISBN 9780470447239, retrieved May 16, 2015 
^ Chitkara, K. K. (1998), Construction Project Management, New Delhi: Tata McGraw-Hill Education, p. 4, ISBN 9780074620625, retrieved May 16, 2015 
^ "Construction" def. 1.a. 1.b. and 1.c. Oxford English Dictionary Second Edition on CD-ROM (v. 4.0) © Oxford University Press 2009
^ "Construction". Online Etymology Dictionary http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=construction accessed 3/6/2014
^ Chitkara, p.9-10.
^ Halpin, p. 15-16.
^ "The Top 250", Engineering News-Record, September 1, 2014 
^ "The Top 400" (PDF), Engineering News-Record, May 26, 2014 
^ US Census Bureau,NAICS Search 2012 NAICS Definition, Sector 23 -- Construction
^ US Department of Labor (OSHA), Division C: Construction
^ Behrohk Khoshnevis- TEDx Feb 2012 Ojai California on YouTube
^ Diaz, Jesus (2013-01-31). "This Is What the First Lunar Base Could Really Look Like". Gizmodo. Retrieved 2013-02-01. 
^ "The World's First 3D-Printed Building Will Arrive In 2014". TechCrunch. 2012-01-20. Retrieved 2013-02-08. 
^ Charter of the New Urbanism
^ "Beauty, Humanism, Continuity between Past and Future". Traditional Architecture Group. Retrieved 23 March 2014. 
^ Issue Brief: Smart-Growth: Building Livable Communities. American Institute of Architects. Retrieved on 2014-03-23.
^ "Night view of the Mud Mountain Dam core site tent, May 1941". washington.edu. 
^ "Fake building used to cover up construction site in Liaoning". Shanghaiist. 
^ "Kæmpetelt med indbygget kran giver Novos byggeri tørvejr". Ingeniøren. 22 October 2015. 
^ "Global construction industry faces growing threat of economic crime". pwc. pwc. Retrieved 16 September 2015. 
^ School districts increasingly seek alternate financing : North County Times – Californian
^ Cronin, Jeff (2005). "S. Carolina Court to Decide Legality of Design-Build Bids". Construction Equipment Guide. Retrieved 2008-01-04. 
^ Value of Construction Put in Place at a Glance. United States Census Bureau. Also see Manufacturing & Construction Statistics for more information.
^ McIntyre M, Strischek D. (2005). Surety Bonding in Today's Construction Market: Changing Times for Contractors, Bankers, and Sureties. The RMA Journal.
^ Industries at a Glance: Construction: NAICS 23. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
^ a b Swanson, Naomi; Tisdale-Pardi, Julie; MacDonald, Leslie; Tiesman, Hope M. (13 May 2013). "Women's Health at Work". National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Retrieved 21 January 2015. 
^ Wood, Hannah (17 January 2012). "UK Construction Careers, Certifications/Degrees and occupations". TH Services. Retrieved 4 March 2012. 
^ ConstructionSkills – Apprenticeships
^ "UK website launches salary comparison tool". Retrieved 2011-07-04. 
^ a b "Salary Benchmarker". Retrieved 2011-07-04. 
^ "Top 10 Paying Jobs for Tradesmen". Work Boots Blog. 2011-07-08. 
^ a b c "Construction Safety and Health". Workplace Safety & Health Topics. National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health. Retrieved 3 August 2012. 
^ "Health and safety at work statistics". eurostat. European Commission. Retrieved 3 August 2012. 
^ "OSHA's Fall Prevention Campaign". Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Retrieved 6 August 2012. 
^ "The Construction Chart Book: The US Construction Industry and its Workers" (PDF). CPWR, 2013. 
^ Knecht B. Fast-track construction becomes the norm. Architectural Record.
^ Figures from the United Nations' UN National Accounts Database. for the countries of the world. Retrieved 1 February 2014.








v
t
e


Construction industry by country









Canada
India
Iran
Japan
Hong Kong SAR
Romania
United Kingdom
United States












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Construction&oldid=760741367"					
Categories: ConstructionHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2016Articles containing potentially dated statements from January 2013All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles needing additional references from October 2006All articles needing additional referencesCommons category with page title same as on Wikidata 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةAsturianuAvañe'ẽবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБашҡортсаБеларускаяБългарскиCatalàЧӑвашлаDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGaeilgeGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीIdoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתBasa Jawaಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliКыргызчаລາວLatgaļuLatviešuLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиमराठीBahasa MelayuМонголNederlandsनेपाल भाषा日本語NapulitanoNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаپښتوPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSicilianuSimple EnglishSlovenčinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng ViệtVõroWinarayייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 18 January 2017, at 20:31.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.556","walltime":"0.719","ppvisitednodes":{"value":6423,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":175038,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":9040,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":20,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  497.184      1 -total"," 30.17%  150.018      1 Template:Bar_chart"," 25.82%  128.357      1 Template:Reflist","  8.76%   43.546     25 Template:Flag","  8.55%   42.525      5 Template:Navbox","  8.31%   41.305     14 Template:Cite_web","  7.75%   38.532      5 Template:Citation","  7.02%   34.920      1 Template:Citation_needed","  6.35%   31.594      1 Template:Fix","  5.65%   28.074      1 Template:Technology"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.146","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":8621317,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1241","timestamp":"20170203013728","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":84,"wgHostname":"mw1218"});});
