 






Energy development

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Further information: Outline of energy development


Energy development







Total
Renewables split-up by source



   Fossil
   Renewable
   Nuclear


   Biomass heat
   Solar-water
   Geo-heat
   Hydro
   Ethanol
   Biodiesel


   Biomass electric
   Wind
   Geo-electric
   Solar PV
   Solar CSP
   Oceanic



Source: Renewable Energy Policy Network[1]




World total primary energy production

j






  Total world primary energy production (quadrillion Btu)[2]




   China
   Russia
   Africa


   United States
   Europe
   Central and South America



Note the different y-axis for total (left) and regional curves (right)



US Energy Use/Flow in 2011


Energy flow charts show the relative size of primary energy resources and end uses in the United States, with fuels compared on a common energy unit basis (2011: 97.3 quads).[3]



Compounds and Radiant Energy



   Solar
   Nuclear
   Hydro


   Wind
   Geothermal
   Natural gas


   Coal
   Biomass
   Petroleum



Producing Electrical Currents/Utilizing Effects Transmitted



   Electricity generation
   Residential, Commercial, Industrial, transportation
   Rejected energy[note 1]
   Energy services







Energy development[4][5][6] is a field of endeavor focused on making available sufficient primary energy sources[7] and secondary energy forms to meet the needs of society.[8][9][10][11][12] These endeavors encompass those which provide for the production of conventional, alternative and renewable sources of energy, and for the recovery and reuse of energy that would otherwise be wasted. Energy conservation[note 2] and efficiency measures[note 3] reduce the effect of energy development, and can have benefits to society with changes in economic cost and with changes in the environmental effects.
Contemporary industrial societies use primary and secondary energy sources for transportation and the production of many manufactured goods. Also, large industrial populations have various generation and delivery services for energy distribution and end-user utilization.[note 4] This energy is used by people who can afford the cost to live under various climatic conditions through the use of heating, ventilation, and/or air conditioning. Level of use of external energy sources differs across societies, along with the convenience, levels of traffic congestion, pollution sources[13] and availability of domestic energy sources.
Thousands of people in society are employed in the energy industry. The conventional industry comprises the petroleum industry[note 5] the gas industry,[note 6] the electrical power industry[note 7] the coal industry, and the nuclear power industry. New energy industries include the renewable energy industry, comprising alternative and sustainable manufacture, distribution, and sale of alternative fuels. While there is the development of new hydrocarbon sources,[14]



Contents


1 Types of energy
2 Fossil fuels
3 Nuclear

3.1 Fission
3.2 Fission economics


4 Renewable sources

4.1 Hydroelectricity
4.2 Wind
4.3 Solar
4.4 Biofuels
4.5 Geothermal
4.6 Oceanic
4.7 100% renewable energy


5 Increased energy efficiency
6 Transmission

6.1 Shipping and pipelines
6.2 Wired energy transfer
6.3 Wireless energy transfer


7 Storage
8 History of energy development

8.1 Sustainability
8.2 Resilience
8.3 Present and future


9 See also
10 References and citations
11 Sources
12 Journals
13 External links



Types of energy[edit]
Further information: World energy resources and consumption
See also: Worldwide energy supply, Energy and society, Energy planning, and Energy policy




Open System Model (basics)


Colloquially, and in non-scientific literature, the terms power,[note 8] fuels, and energy can be used as synonyms, but in the field of energy technology they possess different distinct meanings that are associated with them. An energy source is usually in the form of a closed system, the element that provides the energy by conversion from another energy form; However, the energy can be quantitative, the balance sheet is capable of containing open system energy transfers.[note 9] Illustrative of this can be the emanations from the sun, which with its nuclear fusion is the most important energy source for the Earth[note 10] and which provides its energy in the form of radiation.
The natural elements[note 11] of the material world exist in forms that can be converted into usable energy and are resources from which society can obtain energy to produce heat, light, and motion (among the many uses). According to their nature, the power plants can be classified into:

Primary : They are found in nature: wind, water, solar,[note 12] wood, coal, oil, nuclear.
Secondary : Are those obtained from primary energy sources: electricity, gas.

Classified according to the energy reserves of the energy source used and the regeneration capacity with:

renewable: When the energy source used is freely regenerated in a short period and there are practically limitless reserves; An example is the solar energy that is the source of energy from the sun, or the wind[note 13] used as an energy resource. Renewable energies are:

original solar
natural wind (atmospheric flows)
natural geothermal
oceanic tidal
natural waterfall (hydraulic flows)
natural plant: paper, wood
natural animal: wax, grease,[note 14] pack animals and sources of mechanical energy[note 15]


nonrenewable: They are coming from energy limited sources on Earth in quantity and, therefore, are exhaustible. The non-renewable energy sources include, non-exclusively:

fossil source: petroleum, natural gas, coal
original mineral/chemical: uranium, shale gas[note 16]



So, for example, shale gas is secondary non-renewable. Wind is a primary renewable.
The principle stated by Antoine Lavoisier on the conservation of matter applies to energy development:[note 17] "nothing is created." Thus any energy "production" is actually a recovery transformation of the forms of energy whose origin is that of the universe.
For example, a bicycle dynamo turns in part from the kinetic energy (speed energy) of the movement of the cyclist and converting it into electrical energy will transfer in particular to its lights producing light, that is to say light energy, via the heating of the filament of the bulb and therefore heat (thermal energy). But the kinetic energy of the rider is itself biochemical energy (the ATP muscle cells) derived from the chemical energy of sugars synthesized by plants who use light energy from the sun, which runs from the nuclear energy produced by fusion of atoms of hydrogen. This material itself constitutes a form of energy, called "mass energy."
Fossil fuels[edit]




The Moss Landing Power Plant in California is a fossil-fuel power station that burns natural gas in a turbine to produce electricity


Main articles: Fossil fuel and Peak oil
Fossil fuel (primary non-renewable fossil) sources burn coal or hydrocarbon fuels, which are the remains of the decomposition of plants and animals. There are three main types of fossil fuels: coal, petroleum, and natural gas. Another fossil fuel, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), is principally derived from the production of natural gas. Heat from burning fossil fuel is used either directly for space heating and process heating, or converted to mechanical energy for vehicles, industrial processes, or electrical power generation.
Fossil energy is from recovered fossils (like brown coal, hard coal, peat, natural gas and crude oil) and are originated in degradated products of dead plants and animals. These fossil fuels are based on the carbon cycle and thus allow stored (historic solar) energy to be recycled today. In 2005, 81% were of the world's energy needs met from fossil sources.[15] Biomass is also derived from wood and other organic wastes and modern remains. The technical development of fossil fuels in the 18th and 19th Century set the stage for the Industrial Revolution.
Fossil fuels make up the bulk of the world's current primary energy sources. The technology and infrastructure already exist for the use of fossil fuels. Petroleum energy density in terms of volume (cubic space) and mass (weight) ranks currently above that of alternative energy sources (or energy storage devices, like a battery). Fossil fuels are currently economical, and suitable for decentralised energy use.




A (horizontal) drilling rig for natural gas in Texas


Dependence on fossil fuels from regions or countries creates energy security risks for dependent countries.[16][17][18][19][20] Oil dependence in particular has led to war,[21] funding of radicals,[22] monopolization,[23] and socio-political instability.[24] Fossil fuels are non-renewable, un-sustainable resources, which will eventually decline in production[25] and become exhausted, with consequences to societies that remain dependent on them. Fossil fuels are actually slowly forming continuously, but are being consumed quicker than are formed.[note 18] Extracting fuels becomes increasingly extreme as society consumes the most accessible fuel deposits. Extraction in fuel mines get intensive and oil rigs drill deeper (going further out to sea).[26] Extraction of fossil fuels results in environmental degradation, such as the strip mining and mountaintop removal of coal.
Fuel efficiency is a form of thermal efficiency, meaning the efficiency of a process that converts chemical potential energy contained in a carrier fuel into kinetic energy or work. The fuel economy is the energy efficiency of a particular vehicle, is given as a ratio of distance travelled per unit of fuel consumed. Weight-specific efficiency (efficiency per unit weight) may be stated for freight, and passenger-specific efficiency (vehicle efficiency per passenger). The inefficient atmospheric combustion (burning) of fossil fuels in vehicles, buildings, and power plants contributes to urban heat islands.[27]
Conventional production of oil has peaked, conservatively, between 2007 and 2010.[note 19] In 2010, it was estimated that an investment in non-renewable resources of $8 trillion would be required to maintain current levels of production for 25 years.[28] In 2010, governments subsidized fossil fuels by an estimated $500 billion a year.[29] Fossil fuels are also a source of greenhouse gas emissions, leading to concerns about global warming if consumption is not reduced.
The combustion of fossil fuels leads to the release of pollution into the atmosphere. The fossil fuels are mainly based on organic carbon compounds. They are according to the IPCC the causes of the global warming.[30] During the combustion with oxygen in the form of heat energy, carbon dioxide released. Depending on the composition and purity of the fossil fuel also results in other chemical compounds such as nitrogen oxides (NOx) and soot and other fine particulates alternativey. Greenhouse gas emissions result from fossil fuel-based electricity generation. A typical coal plant generates billions of kilowatt hours per year.[31][note 20] Emissions from such fossil fuel power station include carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, small particulates, nitrogen oxides, smog with high levels of ozone, carbon monoxide (CO), hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds (VOC), mercury, arsenic, lead, cadmium, other heavy metals, and traces of uranium.[32][33]
Nuclear[edit]
Fission[edit]




The Susquehanna Steam Electric Station, a boiling water reactor. The reactors are located inside the rectangular containment buildings towards the front of the cooling towers. The power station produces 63 million kilowatt hours per day.



American nuclear powered ships,(top to bottom) cruisers USS Bainbridge, the USS Long Beach and the USS Enterprise, the longest ever naval vessel, and the first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. Picture taken in 1964 during a record setting voyage of 26,540 nmi (49,190 km) around the world in 65 days without refueling. Crew members are spelling out Einstein's mass-energy equivalence formula E = mc2 on the flight deck.



The Russian nuclear-powered icebreaker NS Yamal on a joint scientific expedition with the NSF in 1994



Main article: Nuclear power
Nuclear power, or nuclear energy, is the use of exothermic nuclear processes,[34] to generate useful heat and electricity. The term includes nuclear fission, nuclear decay and nuclear fusion. Presently the nuclear fission of elements in the actinide series of the periodic table produce the vast majority of nuclear energy in the direct service of humankind, with nuclear decay processes, primarily in the form of geothermal energy, and radioisotope thermoelectric generators, in niche uses making up the rest. Nuclear (fission) power stations, excluding the contribution from naval nuclear fission reactors, provided about 5.7% of the world's energy and 13% of the world's electricity in 2012.[35] In 2013, the IAEA report that there are 437 operational nuclear power reactors,[36] in 31 countries,[37] although not every reactor is producing electricity.[38] In addition, there are approximately 140 naval vessels using nuclear propulsion in operation, powered by some 180 reactors.[39][40][41] As of 2013, attaining a net energy gain from sustained nuclear fusion reactions, excluding natural fusion power sources such as the Sun, remains an ongoing area of international physics and engineering research. More than 60 years after the first attempts, commercial fusion power production remains unlikely before 2050.[42]
There is an ongoing debate about nuclear power.[43][44][45] Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association, the IAEA and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy contend that nuclear power is a safe, sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.[46] Opponents, such as Greenpeace International and NIRS, contend that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment.[47][48][49]
Nuclear power plant accidents include the Chernobyl disaster (1986), Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster (2011), and the Three Mile Island accident (1979).[50] There have also been some nuclear submarine accidents.[50][51][52] In terms of lives lost per unit of energy generated, analysis has determined that nuclear power has caused less fatalities per unit of energy generated than the other major sources of energy generation. Energy production from coal, petroleum, natural gas and hydropower has caused a greater number of fatalities per unit of energy generated due to air pollution and energy accident effects.[53][54][55][56][57] However, the economic costs of nuclear power accidents is high, and meltdowns can take decades to clean up. The human costs of evacuations of affected populations and lost livelihoods is also significant.[58][59]
In 2016, strengthening the case of nuclear fission being regarded as a renewable energy, the global effort focused on techniques to economically extract the naturally replenishing uranium found in seawater took a step forward and will prevent "peak uranium", as the quantity of uranium now becoming economically recoverable with the field tested absorbent polymer ropes, is practically inexhaustible.[60][61]
Along with other sustainable energy sources, nuclear power is a low carbon power generation method of producing electricity, with an analysis of the literature on its total life cycle emission intensity finding that it is similar to other renewable sources in a comparison of greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions per unit of energy generated.[62] With this translating into, from the beginning of nuclear power station commercialization in the 1970s, having prevented the emission of approximately 64 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent(GtCO2-eq) greenhouse gases, gases that would have otherwise resulted from the burning of oil, coal or natural gas in fossil-fuel power stations.[63]
As of 2012, according to the IAEA, worldwide there were 68 civil nuclear power reactors under construction in 15 countries,[36] approximately 28 of which in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), with the most recent nuclear power reactor, as of May 2013, to be connected to the electrical grid, occurring on February 17, 2013 in Hongyanhe Nuclear Power Plant in the PRC.[64] In the United States, two new Generation III reactors are under construction at Vogtle. U.S. nuclear industry officials expect five new reactors to enter service by 2020, all at existing plants.[65] In 2013, four aging, uncompetitive, reactors were permanently closed.[66][67]
Japan's 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident, which occurred in a reactor design from the 1960s, prompted a rethink of nuclear safety and nuclear energy policy in many countries.[68] Germany decided to close all its reactors by 2022, and Italy has banned nuclear power.[68] Following Fukushima, in 2011 the International Energy Agency halved its estimate of additional nuclear generating capacity to be built by 2035.[69][70]
Fission economics[edit]
Main article: Economics of new nuclear power plants




The 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, the second worst nuclear incident, displaced 50,000 households after radioactive material leaked into the air, soil and sea.[71] Radiation checks led to bans on some shipments of vegetables and fish.[72]


The economics of new nuclear power plants is a controversial subject, since there are diverging views on this topic, and multibillion-dollar investments ride on the choice of an energy source. Nuclear power plants typically have high capital costs for building the plant, but low direct fuel costs.
In recent years there has been a slowdown of electricity demand growth and financing has become more difficult, which affects large projects such as nuclear reactors, with very large upfront costs and long project cycles which carry a large variety of risks.[73] In Eastern Europe, a number of long-established projects are struggling to find finance, notably Belene in Bulgaria and the additional reactors at Cernavoda in Romania, and some potential backers have pulled out.[73] Where cheap gas is available and its future supply relatively secure, this also poses a major problem for nuclear projects.[73]




Two months after the Fukushima I failures, a global public support survey by Ipsos (2011) for energy sources was published and nuclear/fission was found to be the least popular[74]


Analysis of the economics of nuclear power must take into account who bears the risks of future uncertainties. To date all operating nuclear power plants were developed by state-owned or regulated utility monopolies[75][76] where many of the risks associated with construction costs, operating performance, fuel price, and other factors were borne by consumers rather than suppliers. Many countries have now liberalized the electricity market where these risks, and the risk of cheaper competitors emerging before capital costs are recovered, are borne by plant suppliers and operators rather than consumers, which leads to a significantly different evaluation of the economics of new nuclear power plants.[77]
Two of the four EPRs under construction (in Finland and France) are significantly behind schedule and substantially over cost.[78] Following the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, costs are likely to go up for currently operating and new nuclear power plants, due to increased requirements for on-site spent fuel management and elevated design basis threats.[79] While first of their kind designs, such as the EPRs under construction are behind schedule and over-budget, of the seven South Korean APR-1400s presently under construction worldwide, two are in S.Korea at the Hanul Nuclear Power Plant and four are at the largest nuclear station construction project in the world as of 2016, in the United Arab Emirates at the planned Barakah nuclear power plant. The first reactor, Barakah-1 is 85% completed and on schedule for grid-connection during 2017.[80][81]
Renewable sources[edit]
Main article: Renewable energy commercialization




Wind, sun, and hydroelectricity are three renewable energy sources.


Renewable energy is generally defined as energy that comes from resources which are naturally replenished on a human timescale such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves and geothermal heat.[82] Renewable energy replaces conventional fuels in four distinct areas: electricity generation, hot water/space heating, motor fuels, and rural (off-grid) energy services.[83]
About 16% of global final energy consumption presently comes from renewable resources, with 10% [84] of all energy from traditional biomass, mainly used for heating, and 3.4% from hydroelectricity. New renewables (small hydro, modern biomass, wind, solar, geothermal, and biofuels) account for another 3% and are growing rapidly.[85] At the national level, at least 30 nations around the world already have renewable energy contributing more than 20% of energy supply. National renewable energy markets are projected to continue to grow strongly in the coming decade and beyond.[86] Wind power, for example, is growing at the rate of 30% annually, with a worldwide installed capacity of 282,482 megawatts (MW) at the end of 2012.
Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries. Rapid deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency is resulting in significant energy security, climate change mitigation, and economic benefits.[87] In international public opinion surveys there is strong support for promoting renewable sources such as solar power and wind power.[88]
While many renewable energy projects are large-scale, renewable technologies are also suited to rural and remote areas and developing countries, where energy is often crucial in human development.[89] United Nations' Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said that renewable energy has the ability to lift the poorest nations to new levels of prosperity.[90]
Hydroelectricity[edit]
Main article: Hydroelectricity




The 22,500 MW Three Gorges Dam in China – the world's largest hydroelectric power station


Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water. In 2015 hydropower generated 16.6% of the worlds total electricity and 70% of all renewable electricity[91] and is expected to increase about 3.1% each year for the next 25 years.
Hydropower is produced in 150 countries, with the Asia-Pacific region generating 32 percent of global hydropower in 2010. China is the largest hydroelectricity producer, with 721 terawatt-hours of production in 2010, representing around 17 percent of domestic electricity use. There are now three hydroelectricity plants larger than 10 GW: the Three Gorges Dam in China, Itaipu Dam across the Brazil/Paraguay border, and Guri Dam in Venezuela.[92]
The cost of hydroelectricity is relatively low, making it a competitive source of renewable electricity. The average cost of electricity from a hydro plant larger than 10 megawatts is 3 to 5 U.S. cents per kilowatt-hour.[92] Hydro is also a flexible source of electricity since plants can be ramped up and down very quickly to adapt to changing energy demands. However, damming interrupts the flow of rivers and can harm local ecosystems, and building large dams and reservoirs often involves displacing people and wildlife.[92] Once a hydroelectric complex is constructed, the project produces no direct waste, and has a considerably lower output level of the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide (CO2) than fossil fuel powered energy plants.[93]
Wind[edit]
See also: Wind power




Burbo Bank Offshore Wind Farm in North West England



Global growth of wind power capacity



Wind (primary renewable natural) power harnesses the power of the wind to propel the blades of wind turbines. These turbines cause the rotation of magnets, which creates electricity. Wind towers are usually built together on wind farms. There are offshore and onshore wind farms. Global wind power capacity has expanded rapidly to 336 GW in June 2014, and wind energy production was around 4% of total worldwide electricity usage, and growing rapidly.[94]
Wind power is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States.[95] Several countries have achieved relatively high levels of wind power penetration, such as 21% of stationary electricity production in Denmark,[96] 18% in Portugal,[96] 16% in Spain,[96] 14% in Ireland,[97] and 9% in Germany in 2010.[96][98] By 2011, at times over 50% of electricity in Germany and Spain came from wind and solar power.[99][100] As of 2011, 83 countries around the world are using wind power on a commercial basis.[98]
Many of the world's largest onshore wind farms are located in the United States, China, and India. Most of the world's largest offshore wind farms are located in Denmark, Germany and the United Kingdom. The two largest offshore wind farm are currently the 630 MW London Array and Gwynt y Môr.

Large onshore wind farms

Wind farm
Current
capacity
(MW)
Country
Notes


Alta (Oak Creek-Mojave)
1,320
 USA
[101]


Jaisalmer Wind Park
1,064
 India
[102]


Roscoe Wind Farm
781
 USA
[103]


Horse Hollow Wind Energy Center
735
 USA
[104][105]


Capricorn Ridge Wind Farm
662
 USA
[104][105]


Fântânele-Cogealac Wind Farm
600
 Romania
[106]


Fowler Ridge Wind Farm
599
 USA
[107]


Solar[edit]
Main articles: Solar PV systems and Concentrated solar power




Part of the 354 MW SEGS solar complex in northern San Bernardino County, California



The 150 MW Andasol Solar Power Station is a concentrated solar power plant, located in Spain.



Solar energy, radiant light and heat from the sun, is harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis.[108][109]
Solar technologies are broadly characterized as either passive solar or active solar depending on the way they capture, convert and distribute solar energy. Active solar techniques include the use of photovoltaic panels and solar thermal collectors to harness the energy. Passive solar techniques include orienting a building to the Sun, selecting materials with favorable thermal mass or light dispersing properties, and designing spaces that naturally circulate air.
In 2011, the International Energy Agency said that "the development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits. It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise. These advantages are global. Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared".[108]




The Topaz Solar Farm is one of the world's largest solar power stations


Photovoltaics (PV) is a method of generating electrical power by converting solar radiation into direct current electricity using semiconductors that exhibit the photovoltaic effect. Photovoltaic power generation employs solar panels composed of a number of solar cells containing a photovoltaic material. Materials presently used for photovoltaics include monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, cadmium telluride, and copper indium gallium selenide/sulfide. Due to the increased demand for renewable energy sources, the manufacturing of solar cells and photovoltaic arrays has advanced considerably in recent years.
Solar photovoltaics is a sustainable energy source.[110] By the end of 2011, a total of 71.1 GW[111] had been installed, sufficient to generate 85 TWh/year.[112] And by end of 2012, the 100 GW installed capacity milestone was achieved.[113] Solar photovoltaics is now, after hydro and wind power, the third most important renewable energy source in terms of globally installed capacity. More than 100 countries use solar PV. Installations may be ground-mounted (and sometimes integrated with farming and grazing) or built into the roof or walls of a building (either building-integrated photovoltaics or simply rooftop).
Driven by advances in technology and increases in manufacturing scale and sophistication, the cost of photovoltaics has declined steadily since the first solar cells were manufactured,[114] and the levelised cost of electricity (LCOE) from PV is competitive with conventional electricity sources in an expanding list of geographic regions. Net metering and financial incentives, such as preferential feed-in tariffs for solar-generated electricity, have supported solar PV installations in many countries.[115] The Energy Payback Time (EPBT), also known as energy amortization, depends on the location's annual solar insolation and temperature profile, as well as on the used type of PV-technology. For conventional crystalline silicon photovoltaics, the EPBT is higher than for thin-film technologies such as CdTe-PV or CPV-systems. Moreover, the payback time decreased in the recent years due to a number of improvements such as solar cell efficiency and more economic manufacturing processes. As of 2014, photovoltaics recoup on average the energy needed to manufacture them in 0.7 to 2 years. This results in about 95% of net-clean energy produced by a solar rooftop PV system over a 30-year life-time.[116]:30
Biofuels[edit]
Main articles: Biofuel and Sustainable biofuel




A bus fueled by biodiesel



Information on pump regarding ethanol fuel blend up to 10%, California



A biofuel is a fuel that contains energy from geologically recent carbon fixation. These fuels are produced from living organisms. Examples of this carbon fixation occur in plants and microalgae. These fuels are made by a biomass conversion (biomass refers to recently living organisms, most often referring to plants or plant-derived materials). This biomass can be converted to convenient energy containing substances in three different ways: thermal conversion, chemical conversion, and biochemical conversion. This biomass conversion can result in fuel in solid, liquid, or gas form. This new biomass can be used for biofuels. Biofuels have increased in popularity because of rising oil prices and the need for energy security.
Bioethanol is an alcohol made by fermentation, mostly from carbohydrates produced in sugar or starch crops such as corn or sugarcane. Cellulosic biomass, derived from non-food sources, such as trees and grasses, is also being developed as a feedstock for ethanol production. Ethanol can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a gasoline additive to increase octane and improve vehicle emissions. Bioethanol is widely used in the USA and in Brazil. Current plant design does not provide for converting the lignin portion of plant raw materials to fuel components by fermentation.
Biodiesel is made from vegetable oils and animal fats. Biodiesel can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a diesel additive to reduce levels of particulates, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons from diesel-powered vehicles. Biodiesel is produced from oils or fats using transesterification and is the most common biofuel in Europe. However, research is underway on producing renewable fuels from decarboxylation[117]
In 2010, worldwide biofuel production reached 105 billion liters (28 billion gallons US), up 17% from 2009,[118] and biofuels provided 2.7% of the world's fuels for road transport, a contribution largely made up of ethanol and biodiesel.[citation needed] Global ethanol fuel production reached 86 billion liters (23 billion gallons US) in 2010, with the United States and Brazil as the world's top producers, accounting together for 90% of global production. The world's largest biodiesel producer is the European Union, accounting for 53% of all biodiesel production in 2010.[118] As of 2011, mandates for blending biofuels exist in 31 countries at the national level and in 29 states or provinces.[98] The International Energy Agency has a goal for biofuels to meet more than a quarter of world demand for transportation fuels by 2050 to reduce dependence on petroleum and coal.[119]
Geothermal[edit]
Main article: Geothermal energy




Steam rising from the Nesjavellir Geothermal Power Station in Iceland


Geothermal energy is thermal energy generated and stored in the Earth. Thermal energy is the energy that determines the temperature of matter. The geothermal energy of the Earth's crust originates from the original formation of the planet (20%) and from radioactive decay of minerals (80%).[120] The geothermal gradient, which is the difference in temperature between the core of the planet and its surface, drives a continuous conduction of thermal energy in the form of heat from the core to the surface. The adjective geothermal originates from the Greek roots γη (ge), meaning earth, and θερμος (thermos), meaning hot.
Earth's internal heat is thermal energy generated from radioactive decay and continual heat loss from Earth's formation. Temperatures at the core-mantle boundary may reach over 4000 °C (7,200 °F).[121] The high temperature and pressure in Earth's interior cause some rock to melt and solid mantle to behave plastically, resulting in portions of mantle convecting upward since it is lighter than the surrounding rock. Rock and water is heated in the crust, sometimes up to 370 °C (700 °F).[122]
From hot springs, geothermal energy has been used for bathing since Paleolithic times and for space heating since ancient Roman times, but it is now better known for electricity generation. Worldwide, 11,400 megawatts (MW) of geothermal power is online in 24 countries in 2012.[123] An additional 28 gigawatts of direct geothermal heating capacity is installed for district heating, space heating, spas, industrial processes, desalination and agricultural applications in 2010.[124]
Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly,[125] but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries. Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation. Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels. As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels.
The Earth's geothermal resources are theoretically more than adequate to supply humanity's energy needs, but only a very small fraction may be profitably exploited. Drilling and exploration for deep resources is very expensive. Forecasts for the future of geothermal power depend on assumptions about technology, energy prices, subsidies, and interest rates. Pilot programs like EWEB's customer opt in Green Power Program [126] show that customers would be willing to pay a little more for a renewable energy source like geothermal. But as a result of government assisted research and industry experience, the cost of generating geothermal power has decreased by 25% over the past two decades.[127] In 2001, geothermal energy cost between two and ten US cents per kWh.[128]
Oceanic[edit]
Main article: Marine energy
Marine energy or marine power (also sometimes referred to as ocean energy, ocean power, or marine and hydrokinetic energy) refers to the energy carried by ocean waves, tides, salinity, and ocean temperature differences. The movement of water in the world's oceans creates a vast store of kinetic energy, or energy in motion. This energy can be harnessed to generate electricity to power homes, transport and industries.
The term marine energy encompasses both wave power i.e. power from surface waves, and tidal power i.e. obtained from the kinetic energy of large bodies of moving water. Offshore wind power is not a form of marine energy, as wind power is derived from the wind, even if the wind turbines are placed over water. The oceans have a tremendous amount of energy and are close to many if not most concentrated populations. Ocean energy has the potential of providing a substantial amount of new renewable energy around the world.
100% renewable energy[edit]
Main article: 100% renewable energy
The incentive to use 100% renewable energy, for electricity, transport, or even total primary energy supply globally, has been motivated by global warming and other ecological as well as economic concerns. Renewable energy use has grown much faster than anyone anticipated.[129] The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has said that there are few fundamental technological limits to integrating a portfolio of renewable energy technologies to meet most of total global energy demand.[130] At the national level, at least 30 nations around the world already have renewable energy contributing more than 20% of energy supply. Also, Professors S. Pacala and Robert H. Socolow have developed a series of "stabilization wedges" that can allow us to maintain our quality of life while avoiding catastrophic climate change, and "renewable energy sources," in aggregate, constitute the largest number of their "wedges." [131]
Mark Z. Jacobson says producing all new energy with wind power, solar power, and hydropower by 2030 is feasible and existing energy supply arrangements could be replaced by 2050. Barriers to implementing the renewable energy plan are seen to be "primarily social and political, not technological or economic". Jacobson says that energy costs with a wind, solar, water system should be similar to today's energy costs.[132]
Similarly, in the United States, the independent National Research Council has noted that "sufficient domestic renewable resources exist to allow renewable electricity to play a significant role in future electricity generation and thus help confront issues related to climate change, energy security, and the escalation of energy costs … Renewable energy is an attractive option because renewable resources available in the United States, taken collectively, can supply significantly greater amounts of electricity than the total current or projected domestic demand." .[133]
Critics of the "100% renewable energy" approach include Vaclav Smil and James E. Hansen. Smil and Hansen are concerned about the variable output of solar and wind power, but Amory Lovins argues that the electricity grid can cope, just as it routinely backs up nonworking coal-fired and nuclear plants with working ones.[134]
Google spent $30 million on their RE<C project to develop renewable energy and stave off catastrophic climate change. The project was cancelled after concluding that a best-case scenario for rapid advances in renewable energy could only result in emissions 55 percent below the fossil fuel projections for 2050.[135]
Increased energy efficiency[edit]




A spiral-type integrated compact fluorescent lamp, which has been popular among North American consumers since its introduction in the mid-1990s[136]


Main article: Efficient energy use
Although increasing the efficiency of energy use is not energy development per se, it may be considered under the topic of energy development since it makes existing energy sources available to do work.[137]:22
Efficient energy use, simply called energy efficiency, is the goal of efforts to reduce the amount of energy required to provide products and services. For example, insulating a home allows a building to use less heating and cooling energy to achieve and maintain a comfortable temperature. Installing fluorescent lamps or natural skylights reduces the amount of energy required to attain the same level of illumination compared to using traditional incandescent light bulbs. Compact fluorescent lights use two-thirds less energy and may last 6 to 10 times longer than incandescent lights. Improvements in energy efficiency are most often achieved by adopting an efficient technology or production process.[138]
There are various motivations to improve energy efficiency. Reducing energy use reduces energy costs and may result in a financial cost saving to consumers if the energy savings offset any additional costs of implementing an energy efficient technology. Reducing energy use is also seen as a key solution to the problem of reducing emissions. According to the International Energy Agency, improved energy efficiency in buildings, industrial processes and transportation could reduce the world's energy needs in 2050 by one third, and help control global emissions of greenhouse gases.[139]
Energy efficiency and renewable energy are said to be the twin pillars of sustainable energy policy.[140] In many countries energy efficiency is also seen to have a national security benefit because it can be used to reduce the level of energy imports from foreign countries and may slow down the rate at which domestic energy resources are depleted.
Transmission[edit]




An elevated section of the Alaska Pipeline


While new sources of energy are only rarely discovered or made possible by new technology, distribution technology continually evolves.[141] The use of fuel cells in cars, for example, is an anticipated delivery technology.[142] This section presents the various delivery technologies that have been important to historic energy development. They all rely in way on the energy sources listed in the previous section.
Shipping and pipelines[edit]
See also: Pipeline transport
Shipping is a flexible delivery technology that is used in the whole range of energy development regimes from primitive to highly advanced. Currently, coal, petroleum and their derivatives are delivered by shipping via boat, rail, or road. Petroleum and natural gas may also be delivered via pipeline and coal via a Slurry pipeline. Refined hydrocarbon fuels such as gasoline and LPG may also be delivered via aircraft. Natural gas pipelines must maintain a certain minimum pressure to function correctly. Ethanol's corrosive properties make it harder to build ethanol pipelines. The higher costs of ethanol transportation and storage are often prohibitive.[143] Geomagnetically induced currents, seen as interfering with the normal operation of long buried pipeline systems, are a manifestation[144][145] at ground level of space weather that occur due to time-varying ionospheric source fields and the conductivity of the Earth.
Wired energy transfer[edit]




Electrical grid – pylons and cables distribute power


Main article: Electrical grid
Electricity grids are the networks used to transmit and distribute power from production source to end user, when the two may be hundreds of kilometres away. Sources include electrical generation plants such as a nuclear reactor, coal burning power plant, etc. A combination of sub-stations, transformers, towers, cables, and piping are used to maintain a constant flow of electricity. Grids may suffer from transient blackouts and brownouts, often due to weather damage. During certain extreme space weather events solar wind can interfere with transmissions. Grids also have a predefined carrying capacity or load that cannot safely be exceeded. When power requirements exceed what's available, failures are inevitable. To prevent problems, power is then rationed.
Industrialised countries such as Canada, the US, and Australia are among the highest per capita consumers of electricity in the world, which is possible thanks to a widespread electrical distribution network. The US grid is one of the most advanced, although infrastructure maintenance is becoming a problem. CurrentEnergy provides a realtime overview of the electricity supply and demand for California, Texas, and the Northeast of the US. African countries with small scale electrical grids have a correspondingly low annual per capita usage of electricity. One of the most powerful power grids in the world supplies power to the state of Queensland, Australia.
Wireless energy transfer[edit]
Main article: Wireless energy transfer
Wireless energy transfer is a process whereby electrical energy is transmitted from a power source to an electrical load that does not have a built-in power source, without the use of interconnecting wires.
See also: World Wireless System
Storage[edit]




The Ffestiniog Power Station in Wales, United Kingdom. Pumped-storage hydroelectricity (PSH) is used for grid energy storage.


Main articles: Energy storage and List of energy storage projects
Energy storage is accomplished by devices or physical media that store energy to perform useful operation at a later time. A device that stores energy is sometimes called an accumulator.
All forms of energy are either potential energy (e.g. Chemical, gravitational, electrical energy, temperature differential, latent heat, etc.) or kinetic energy (e.g. momentum). Some technologies provide only short-term energy storage, and others can be very long-term such as power to gas using hydrogen or methane and the storage of heat or cold between opposing seasons in deep aquifers or bedrock. A wind-up clock stores potential energy (in this case mechanical, in the spring tension), a battery stores readily convertible chemical energy to operate a mobile phone, and a hydroelectric dam stores energy in a reservoir as gravitational potential energy. Ice storage tanks store ice (thermal energy in the form of latent heat) at night to meet peak demand for cooling. Fossil fuels such as coal and gasoline store ancient energy derived from sunlight by organisms that later died, became buried and over time were then converted into these fuels. Even food (which is made by the same process as fossil fuels) is a form of energy stored in chemical form.
History of energy development[edit]




Energy generators past and present at Doel, Belgium: 17th-century windmill Scheldemolen and 20th-century Doel Nuclear Power Station


Since prehistory, when humanity discovered fire to warm up and roast food, through the Middle Ages in which populations built windmills to grind the wheat, until the modern era in which nations can get electricity splitting the atom. Man has sought endlessly for energy sources[note 21] from which to draw profit, which have been the fossil fuels, on one hand the coal to fuel the steam engines run industrial rails as well as maintain households, and secondly, the oil and its derivatives in the industry and transportation (primarily automotive), although have lived with smaller-scale exploitation of wind power, hydro and biomass. This model of development, however, is based on the depletion of fossil resources from periods of millions years without possibility for replacement as would be required to maintain. The search for energy sources that are inexhaustible and utilization by industrialized countries to strengthen their national economies by reducing its dependence on fossil fuels,[note 22] has led to the adoption of nuclear energy and those with sufficient water resources, the intensive hydraulic use of their waterways.
Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the question of the future of energy supplies has been of interest. In 1865, William Stanley Jevons published The Coal Question in which he saw that the reserves of coal were being depleted and that oil was an ineffective replacement. In 1914, U.S. Bureau of Mines stated that the total production was 5.7 billion barrels (910,000,000 m3). In 1956, Geophysicist M. King Hubbert deduces that U.S. oil production will peak between 1965 and 1970 (peaked in 1971) and that oil production will peak "within half a century" on the basis of 1956 data.[note 23] In 1989, predicted peak by Colin Campbell[146] In 2004, OPEC estimated, with substantial investments, it would nearly double oil output by 2025[147]
Sustainability[edit]




Energy consumption from 1989 to 1999


See also: Climate change mitigation and Carbon pricing
The environmental movement has emphasized sustainability of energy use and development.[148] Renewable energy is sustainable in its production; the available supply will not be diminished for the foreseeable future - millions or billions of years. "Sustainability" also refers to the ability of the environment to cope with waste products, especially air pollution. Sources which have no direct waste products (such as wind, solar, and hydropower) are brought up on this point. With global demand for energy growing, the need to adopt various energy sources is growing. Energy conservation is an alternative or complementary process to energy development. It reduces the demand for energy by using it efficiently.
Resilience[edit]




Energy consumption per capita (2001). Red hues indicate increase, green hues decrease of consumption during the 1990s.


Some observers contend that idea of "energy independence" is an unrealistic[note 24] and opaque concept.[149] The alternative offer of "energy resilience" is a goal aligned with economic, security, and energy realities. The notion of resilience in energy was detailed in the 1982 book Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security.[150] The authors argued that simply switching to domestic energy would not be secure inherently because the true weakness is the interdependent and vulnerable energy infrastructure of the United States. Key aspects such as gas lines and the electrical power grid are centralized and easily susceptible to disruption. They conclude that a "resilient energy supply" is necessary for both national security and the environment. They recommend a focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy that is decentralized.[151]
In 2008, former Intel Corporation Chairman and CEO Andrew Grove looked to energy resilience, arguing that complete independence is unfeasible given the global market for energy.[152] He describes energy resilience as the ability to adjust to interruptions in the supply of energy. To that end, he suggests the U.S. make greater use of electricity.[153] Electricity can be produced from a variety of sources. A diverse energy supply will be less affected by the disruption in supply of any one source. He reasons that another feature of electrification is that electricity is "sticky" – meaning the electricity produced in the U.S. is to stay there because it cannot be transported overseas. According to Grove, a key aspect of advancing electrification and energy resilience will be converting the U.S. automotive fleet from gasoline-powered to electric-powered. This, in turn, will require the modernization and expansion of the electrical power grid. As organizations such as The Reform Institute have pointed out, advancements associated with the developing smart grid would facilitate the ability of the grid to absorb vehicles en masse connecting to it to charge their batteries.[154]
 Present and future[edit]




Outlook—World Energy Consumption by Fuel (as of 2011)[155]
  Liquid fuels incl. Biofuels   Coal   Natural Gas
  Renewable fuels   Nuclear fuels






Increasing share of energy consumption by developing nations[156]
  Industrialized nations
  Developing nations
  EE/Former Soviet Union


Extrapolations from current knowledge to the future offer a choice of energy futures.[157] Predictions parallel the Malthusian catastrophe hypothesis. Numerous are complex models based scenarios as pioneered by Limits to Growth. Modeling approaches offer ways to analyze diverse strategies, and hopefully find a road to rapid and sustainable development of humanity. Short term energy crises are also a concern of energy development. Extrapolations lack plausibility, particularly when they predict a continual increase in oil consumption.[citation needed]
Energy production usually requires an energy investment. Drilling for oil or building a wind power plant requires energy. The fossil fuel resources (see above) that are left are often increasingly difficult to extract and convert. They may thus require increasingly higher energy investments. If investment is greater than the energy produced by the resource, it is no longer an effective energy source.[158][note 25] This means that resources, the wasteful ones, are not used effectively for energy production.[note 26] Such resources can be exploited economically in order to produce raw materials;[note 27] They then become ordinary mining reserves, economically recoverable are not a positive energy sources. New technology may ameliorate this problem if it can lower the energy investment required to extract and convert the resources, although ultimately basic physics sets limits that cannot be exceeded.
Between 1950 and 1984, as the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, world grain production increased by 250%. The energy for the Green Revolution was provided by fossil fuels in the form of fertilizers (natural gas), pesticides (oil), and hydrocarbon fueled irrigation.[159] The peaking of world hydrocarbon production (peak oil) may lead to significant changes, and require sustainable methods of production.[160] One vision of a sustainable energy future involves all human structures on the earth's surface (i.e., buildings, vehicles and roads) doing artificial photosynthesis (using sunlight to split water as a source of hydrogen and absorbing carbon dioxide to make fertilizer) efficiently than plants.[161]
With contemporary space industry's economic activity[162][163] and the related private spaceflight, with the manufacturing industries, that go into Earth's orbit or beyond, delivering them to those regions will require further energy development.[164][165][166][167] Commercialization of space includes satellite navigation systems, satellite television and satellite radio; investments estimated to be $50.8 billion.[168] Researchers have contemplated space-based solar power for collecting solar power in space for use on Earth.[note 28][note 29] Space-based solar power only differ from solar and other similar radiant energy collection methods in that the means used to collect energy would reside on an orbiting satellite instead of on Earth's surface. Some projected benefits of such a system are a higher collection rate and a longer collection period due to the lack of a diffusing and refracting atmosphere and nighttime in space.[note 30]
See also[edit]


Energy portal
Renewable energy portal
Nuclear technology portal
Sustainable development portal



Policy
Energy policy, Energy policy of the United States, Energy policy of China, Energy policy of India, Energy policy of the European Union, Energy policy of the United Kingdom, Energy policy of Russia, Energy policy of Brazil, Energy policy of Canada, Energy policy of the Soviet Union, Energy Industry Liberalization and Privatization (Thailand)


General
Seasonal thermal energy storage (Interseasonal thermal energy storage), Geomagnetically induced current, Energy harvesting


Feedstock
Raw material, Biomaterial, Commodity, Materials science, Recycling, Upcycling, Downcycling


Other
Background radiation, Thorium-based nuclear power, List of oil pipelines, List of natural gas pipelines, Ocean thermal energy conversion, Growth of photovoltaics

References and citations[edit]

Notes



^ Also known as heat loss inefficiency
^ See also: Fuel efficiency and Energy efficiency in transportation
^ See also: Energy conversion efficiency
^ For small-scale generation, see: Microgeneration.
^ Including oil companies, petroleum refiners, fuel transport and end-user sales at gas stations
^ Including natural gas extraction, and coal gas manufacture, as well as distribution and sales
^ Including electricity generation, electric power distribution and sales
^ Such as the physical jargon of "power", can be seen in the following:

Electric power transfer rate at which electrical energy is by a circuit
Human power performed by a human
Motive power to create motion
Power in an alternating current electric circuit
Transmitter output power
Effective radiated power measurement
Power spectral density signal


^ See: thermodynamics open system
^ Providing the day and the habitable zone the Earth is in.
^ See also: Matter and Energy
^ Or those pertaining to the cosmos.
^ See also: velocity of wind
^ petroleum products (fats), Hydrogenated vegetable oil (vegetable shortening), Brown grease, and Yellow grease
^ human, donkey, mule, elephant.
^ from shale slate
^ Or, moreover, the mass and energy coupling, as Albert Einstein states in the equivalence between these two concepts in his formula, 



E
=


{\displaystyle E=}

 



m


{\displaystyle m}





⋅

c

2




{\displaystyle \cdot c^{2}}

.
^ See: Oil reserves, Petroleum formation, and Pyrolysis.
^ More liberally, oil has or will peak between 2010 to 2025. One out of several estimations state that there will be no peak. The timing of worldwide peak oil production is being actively debated, but may have already happened in countries. For more, see: Congressional Record, Volume 151-Part 19: November 8, 2005 to November 16, 2005 (Pages 25297 to 26552). Government Printing Office, 2010. p26524-26525.
^ About 10 million kilowatt hours per day; Roughly, 420000 kilowatt hours per hour.
^ All terrestrial energy sources except nuclear, geothermal and tidal are from current solar isolation or from fossil remains of plant and animal life that relied directly and indirectly upon sunlight, respectively. Ultimately, solar energy itself is the result of the Sun's nuclear fusion. Geothermal power from hot, hardened rock above the magma of the Earth's core is the result of the decay of radioactive materials present beneath the Earth's crust, and nuclear fission relies on man-made fission of heavy radioactive elements in the Earth's crust; in both cases these elements were produced in supernova explosions before the formation of the solar system.
^ Concentrated in foreign territories after the exploitation and exhaustion of their own resource.
^ See Hubbert peak theory.
^ Said in relation with Liquid metal fast breeder reactor. For more, see: United States. Congress. Senate. Committee on Appropriations. U.S. Government Printing Office, 1975. Page 7349.
^ See: Energy returned on energy invested and Fuel efficiency.
^ See: Waste minimisation
^ For plastics, fertilizers, etc.
^ Using solar power satellites and satellite power systems, such as the electrodynamic tether.
^ Space-based solar power has been in research since the early 1970s.
^ Though, Earth based receiving structures of radiant electromotive forces are not beyond conception.



Citations



^ REN21–Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century Renewables 2012–Global Status Report Archived December 15, 2012, at the Wayback Machine., 2012
^ eia.gov–U.S. Energy Information Administration International Energy Statistics
^ Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory–Energy flow chart, 2011
^ The Federal nonnuclear energy research and development act (Public Law 93-577) section 11, environmental evaluation: report to the President and Congress. By United States Environmental Protection Agency. Office of Environmental Engineering and Technology.
^ The Social impacts of energy development on national parks: final report By United States National Park Service, University of Denver. Center for Community Change. The National Park Service, U.S. Dept. of the Interior, 1984.
^ Assessment of Energy Resource Development Impact on Water Quality, Volume 1. By Susan M. Melancon, Terry S. Michaud, Robert William Thomas. Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, 1979.
^ Resources for the twenty-first century: proceedings of the international centennial symposium of the United States Geological Survey, held at Reston, Virginia, October 14–19, 1979 . By Frank C. Whitmore, Mary Ellen Williams, U.S. Geological Survey.
^ The Homeowner's Guide to Renewable Energy: Achieving Energy Independence. By Dan Chiras. New Society Publishers, July 5, 2011.
^ Renewable Energy Sources for Sustainable Development. By Narendra Singh Rathore, N. L. Panwar. New India Publishing, January 1, 2007
^ Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation: Summary for Policymakers and Technical Summary: Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Cambridge University Press, 2011.
^ Solar Energy and Nonfossil Fuel Research. By United States. Cooperative State Research Service, Smithsonian Science Information Exchange. The Department, 1981.
^ Final Report of the Task Force on the Availability of Federally Owned Mineral Lands, Volumes 1-2. By United States. Task Force on the Availability of Federally Owned Mineral Lands.
^ Hydrocarbon Bioremediation, Volume 2 edited by Robert E. Hinchee
^ Exploitation of Hydrocarbon Resources: New Solutions in Energy Supply : Overview 1995-1998.
^ International Energy Agency: Key World Energy Statistics 2007. S. 6
^ Energy Security and Climate Policy: Assessing Interactions. p125
^ Energy Security: Economics, Politics, Strategies, and Implications. Edited by Carlos Pascual, Jonathan Elkind. p210
^ Geothermal Energy Resources for Developing Countries. By D. Chandrasekharam, J. Bundschuh. p91
^ Congressional Record, V. 153, PT. 2, January 18, 2007 to February 1, 2007 edited by U S Congress, Congress (U.S.). p 1618
^ India s Energy Security. Edited by Ligia Noronha, Anant Sudarshan.
^ National security, safety, technology, and employment implications of increasing CAFE standards : hearing before the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, United States Senate, One Hundred Seventh Congress, second session, January 24, 2002. DIANE Publishing. p10
^ Ending our-Dependence on Oil - American Security Project. americansecurityproject.org
^ Energy Dependency, Politics and Corruption in the Former Soviet Union. By Margarita M. Balmaceda. Psychology Press, December 6, 2007.
^ Oil-Led Development Archived May 13, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.: Social, Political, and Economic Consequences. Terry Lynn Karl. Stanford University. Stanford, California, United States.
^ Peaking of World Oil Production: Impacts, Mitigation, and Risk Management. Was at: www.pppl.gov/polImage.cfm?doc_Id=44&size_code=Doc
^ "Big Rig Building Boom". Rigzone.com. 2006-04-13. Archived from the original on 2007-10-21. Retrieved 2008-01-18. 
^ "Heat Island Group Home Page". Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. 2000-08-30. Archived from the original on January 9, 2008. Retrieved 2008-01-19. 
^ "Has the World Already Passed "Peak Oil"?". nationalgeographic.com. 
^ ScienceDaily.com (April 22, 2010) "Fossil-Fuel Subsidies Hurting Global Environment, Security, Study Finds"
^ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (2007): IPCC Fourth Assessment Report - Working Group I Report on "The Physical Science Basis".
^ How much electricity does a typical nuclear power plant generate? - FAQ - U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA)
^ "Environmental impacts of coal power: air pollution". Union of Concerned Scientists. 18 August 2005. Retrieved 18 January 2008. 
^ NRDC: There Is No Such Thing as "Clean Coal" Archived July 30, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Nuclear Energy". Energy Education is an interactive curriculum supplement for secondary-school science students, funded by the U. S. Department of Energy and the Texas State Energy Conservation Office (SECO). U. S. Department of Energy and the Texas State Energy Conservation Office (SECO). July 2010. Archived from the original on 2011-02-26. Retrieved 2010-07-10. 
^ "Key World Energy Statistics 2012" (PDF). International Energy Agency. 2012. Retrieved 2012-12-17. 
^ a b "PRIS - Home". Iaea.org. Retrieved 2013-06-14. 
^ "World Nuclear Power Reactors 2007-08 and Uranium Requirements". World Nuclear Association. 2008-06-09. Archived from the original on March 3, 2008. Retrieved 2008-06-21. 
^ "Japan approves two reactor restarts". Taipei Times. 2013-06-07. Retrieved 2013-06-14. 
^ "What is Nuclear Power Plant - How Nuclear Power Plants work | What is Nuclear Power Reactor - Types of Nuclear Power Reactors". EngineersGarage. Retrieved 2013-06-14. 
^ "Nuclear-Powered Ships | Nuclear Submarines". World-nuclear.org. Retrieved 2013-06-14. 
^ http://www.ewp.rpi.edu/hartford/~ernesto/F2010/EP2/Materials4Students/Misiaszek/NuclearMarinePropulsion.pdf Naval Nuclear Propulsion, Magdi Ragheb. As of 2001, about 235 naval reactors had been built
^ "Beyond ITER". The ITER Project. Information Services, Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory. Archived from the original on 7 November 2006. Retrieved 5 February 2011.  - Projected fusion power timeline
^ Union-Tribune Editorial Board (March 27, 2011). "The nuclear controversy". Union-Tribune. 
^ James J. MacKenzie. Review of The Nuclear Power Controversy by Arthur W. Murphy The Quarterly Review of Biology, Vol. 52, No. 4 (Dec., 1977), pp. 467-468.
^ In February 2010 the nuclear power debate played out on the pages of the New York Times, see A Reasonable Bet on Nuclear Power and Revisiting Nuclear Power: A Debate and A Comeback for Nuclear Power?
^ U.S. Energy Legislation May Be 'Renaissance' for Nuclear Power.
^ Share. "Nuclear Waste Pools in North Carolina". Projectcensored.org. Archived from the original on 2010-07-25. Retrieved 2010-08-24. 
^ "Nuclear Power". Nc Warn. Retrieved 2013-06-22. 
^ Sturgis, Sue. "Investigation: Revelations about Three Mile Island disaster raise doubts over nuclear plant safety". Southernstudies.org. Retrieved 2010-08-24. 
^ a b iPad iPhone Android TIME TV Populist The Page (2009-03-25). "The Worst Nuclear Disasters". Time.com. Retrieved 2013-06-22. 
^ Strengthening the Safety of Radiation Sources Archived 20090608223006 at WebCite p. 14.
^ Johnston, Robert (September 23, 2007). "Deadliest radiation accidents and other events causing radiation casualties". Database of Radiological Incidents and Related Events. 
^ Markandya, A.; Wilkinson, P. (2007). "Electricity generation and health". Lancet. 370 (9591): 979–990. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61253-7. PMID 17876910. 
^ "Dr. MacKay Sustainable Energy without the hot air". Data from studies by the Paul Scherrer Institute including non EU data. p. 168. Retrieved 15 September 2012. 
^ http://www.forbes.com/sites/jamesconca/2012/06/10/energys-deathprint-a-price-always-paid/ with Chernobyl's total predicted linear no-threshold cancer deaths included, nuclear power is safer when compared to many alternative energy sources' immediate, death rate.
^ Brendan Nicholson (2006-06-05). "Nuclear power 'cheaper, safer' than coal and gas". The Age. Retrieved 2008-01-18. 
^ http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10807030802387556 Human and Ecological Risk Assessment: An International Journal Volume 14, Issue 5, 2008 - A comparative analysis of accident risks in fossil, hydro, and nuclear energy chains. If you cannot access the paper via the above link, the following link is open to the public, credit to the authors. http://gabe.web.psi.ch/pdfs/_2012_LEA_Audit/TA01.pdf Page 962 to 965. Comparing Nuclear's latent cancer deaths, such as cancer with other energy sources immediate deaths per unit of energy generated(GWeyr). This study does not include Fossil fuel related cancer and other indirect deaths created by the use of fossil fuel consumption in its "severe accident", an accident with more than 5 fatalities, classification.
^ Richard Schiffman (12 March 2013). "Two years on, America hasn't learned lessons of Fukushima nuclear disaster". The Guardian. 
^ Martin Fackler (June 1, 2011). "Report Finds Japan Underestimated Tsunami Danger". New York Times. 
^ Uranium Seawater Extraction Makes Nuclear Power Completely Renewable. Forbes. James Conca. July 2016
^ April 20, 2016 Volume 55, Issue 15 Pages 4101-4362 In this issue:Uranium in Seawater
^ "Collectively, life cycle assessment literature shows that nuclear power is similar to other renewable and much lower than fossil fuel in total life cycle GHG emissions.''". Nrel.gov. 2013-01-24. Retrieved 2013-06-22. 
^ "Prevented Mortality and Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Historical and Projected Nuclear Power - global nuclear power has prevented an average of 1.84 million air pollution-related deaths and 64 gigatonnes of CO2-equivalent (GtCO2-eq) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that would have resulted from fossil fuel burning". Environmental Science. Pubs.acs.org. 47: 4889–4895. doi:10.1021/es3051197. 
^ "Worldwide First Reactor to Start Up in 2013, in China - World Nuclear Industry Status Report". Worldnuclearreport.org. Retrieved 2013-06-14. 
^ Ayesha Rascoe (February 9, 2012). "U.S. approves first new nuclear plant in a generation". Reuters. 
^ Mark Cooper (18 June 2013). "Nuclear aging: Not so graceful". Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. 
^ Matthew Wald (June 14, 2013). "Nuclear Plants, Old and Uncompetitive, Are Closing Earlier Than Expected". New York Times. 
^ a b Sylvia Westall; Fredrik Dahl (June 24, 2011). "IAEA Head Sees Wide Support for Stricter Nuclear Plant Safety". Scientific American. 
^ "Gauging the pressure". The Economist. 28 April 2011. 
^ European Environment Agency (January 23, 2013). "Late lessons from early warnings: science, precaution, innovation: Full Report". p. 476. 
^ Tomoko Yamazaki; Shunichi Ozasa (27 June 2011). "Fukushima Retiree Leads Anti-Nuclear Shareholders at Tepco Annual Meeting". Bloomberg. 
^ Mari Saito (7 May 2011). "Japan anti-nuclear protesters rally after PM call to close plant". Reuters. 
^ a b c Kidd, Steve (January 21, 2011). "New reactors—more or less?". Nuclear Engineering International. Archived from the original on 2011-12-12. 
^ Ipsos (23 June 2011), Global Citizen Reaction to the Fukushima Nuclear Plant Disaster (theme: environment / climate) Ipsos Global @dvisor (PDF) . Survey website: Ipsos MORI: Poll: Strong global opposition towards nuclear power.
^ Ed Crooks (12 September 2010). "Nuclear: New dawn now seems limited to the east". Financial Times. Retrieved 12 September 2010. 
^ Edward Kee (16 March 2012). "Future of Nuclear Energy" (PDF). NERA Economic Consulting. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 October 2013. Retrieved 2 October 2013. 
^ The Future of Nuclear Power. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 2003. ISBN 0-615-12420-8. Retrieved 2006-11-10. 
^ Patel, Tara; Francois de Beaupuy (24 November 2010). "China Builds Nuclear Reactor for 40% Less Than Cost in France, Areva Says". Bloomberg. Retrieved 2011-03-08. 
^ Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2011). "The Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle" (PDF). p. xv. 
^ UAE's fourth power reactor under construction
^ BU DHABI, 7th April, 2016 (WAM) – The Emirates Nuclear Energy Corporation ( ENEC ) provided a project update on the status of the UAE peaceful nuclear energy program and the Barakah site
^ "The myth of renewable energy | Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists". Thebulletin.org. 2011-11-22. Retrieved 2013-10-03. 
^ REN21 (2010). Renewables 2010 Global Status Report p. 15. Archived April 16, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
^ http://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/cooking.pdf
^ REN21 (2011). "Renewables 2011: Global Status Report" (PDF). pp. 17, 18. 
^ REN21 (2013). "Renewables global futures report 2013" (PDF). [permanent dead link]
^ International Energy Agency (2012). "Energy Technology Perspectives 2012" (PDF). 
^ United Nations Environment Programme Global Trends in Sustainable Energy Investment 2007: Analysis of Trends and Issues in the Financing of Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency in OECD and Developing Countries Archived March 25, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. (PDF), p. 3.
^ World Energy Assessment (2001). Renewable energy technologies Archived June 9, 2007, at the Wayback Machine., p. 221.
^ Steve Leone (25 August 2011). "U.N. Secretary-General: Renewables Can End Energy Poverty". Renewable Energy World. 
^ http://www.ren21.net/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/GSR_2016_Full_Report_REN21.pdf
^ a b c Worldwatch Institute (January 2012). "Use and Capacity of Global Hydropower Increases". 
^ Renewables 2011 Global Status Report, page 25, Hydropower Archived April 9, 2012, at the Wayback Machine., REN21, published 2011, accessed 2011-11-7.
^ The World Wind Energy Association (2014). 2014 Half-year Report. WWEA. pp. 1–8. 
^ Global wind energy markets continue to boom – 2006 another record year (PDF).
^ a b c d "World Wind Energy Report 2010" (PDF). Report. World Wind Energy Association. February 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 September 2011. Retrieved 8 August 2011. 
^ "Renewables". eirgrid.com. Archived from the original on 25 August 2011. Retrieved 22 November 2010. 
^ a b c REN21 (2011). "Renewables 2011: Global Status Report" (PDF). p. 11. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-09-05.  Cite error: Invalid <ref> tag; name "ren212011" defined multiple times with different content (see the help page).
^ "This page has been removed - News - The Guardian". the Guardian. 
^ Spain Renewable Energy and High Penetration Archived June 9, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
^ Terra-Gen Press Release, 17 April 2012
^ BS Reporter (11 May 2012). "Suzlon creates country's largest wind park". business-standard.com. 
^ E.ON Delivers 335-MW of Wind in Texas
^ a b "Drilling Down: What Projects Made 2008 Such a Banner Year for Wind Power?". renewableenergyworld.com. 
^ a b AWEA: U.S. Wind Energy Projects – Texas Archived December 29, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
^ FG Forrest; a. s.; fg {zavináč } fg {tečka} cz - Content Management System - Edee CMS; SYMBIO Digital, s. r. o. - Webdesign. "CEZ Group - The Largest Wind Farm in Europe Goes Into Trial Operation". cez.cz.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ AWEA: U.S. Wind Energy Projects – Indiana
^ a b "Solar Energy Perspectives: Executive Summary" (PDF). International Energy Agency. 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-12-03. 
^ Solar Fuels and Artificial Photosynthesis. Royal Society of Chemistry 2012 http://www.rsc.org/ScienceAndTechnology/Policy/Documents/solar-fuels.asp (accessed 11 March 2013)
^ Pearce, Joshua (2002). open access "Photovoltaics – A Path to Sustainable Futures" Check |url= value (help). Futures. 34 (7): 663–674. doi:10.1016/S0016-3287(02)00008-3. 
^ European Photovoltaic Industry Association (2013). "Global Market Outlook for Photovoltaics 2013-2017". 
^ European Photovoltaic Industry Association (2012). "Market Report 2011" (PDF). 
^ Global Solar PV installed Capacity crosses 100GW Mark. renewindians.com (11 February 2013).
^ Swanson, R. M. (2009). "Photovoltaics Power Up" (PDF). Science. 324 (5929): 891–2. doi:10.1126/science.1169616. PMID 19443773. 
^ Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st century (REN21), Renewables 2010 Global Status Report, Paris, 2010, pp. 1–80.
^ "Photovoltaics Report" (PDF). Fraunhofer ISE. 28 July 2014. Archived (PDF) from the original on 31 August 2014. Retrieved 24 October 2014. 
^ "Continuous catalytic deoxygenation of model and algal lipids to fuel-like hydrocarbons over Ni–Al layered double hydroxide". Catalysis Today. 258: 284–293. doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2014.12.004. Retrieved 2015-06-02. 
^ a b "Biofuels Make a Comeback Despite Tough Economy". Worldwatch Institute. 2011-08-31. Retrieved 2011-08-31. 
^ "Technology Roadmap, Biofuels for Transport" (PDF). 2011. 
^ How Geothermal energy works. Ucsusa.org. Retrieved on 2013-04-24.
^ Lay, T., Hernlund, J., & Buffett, B. A. (2008). Core–mantle boundary heat flow. Nature Geoscience, 1(1), 25-32.
^ Nemzer, J. "Geothermal heating and cooling". 
^ "Geothermal capacity | About BP | BP Global". Bp.com. Retrieved 2013-10-05. 
^ Fridleifsson, Ingvar B.; Bertani, Ruggero; Huenges, Ernst; Lund, John W.; Ragnarsson, Arni; Rybach, Ladislaus (2008-02-11), O. Hohmeyer and T. Trittin, ed., The possible role and contribution of geothermal energy to the mitigation of climate change (pdf), IPCC Scoping Meeting on Renewable Energy Sources, Luebeck, Germany, pp. 59–80, retrieved 2009-04-06
^ Glassley, William E. (2010). Geothermal Energy: Renewable Energy and the Environment, CRC Press, ISBN 9781420075700.
^ Green Power. eweb.org
^ Cothran, Helen (2002), Energy Alternatives, Greenhaven Press, ISBN 0737709049 
^ Fridleifsson, Ingvar. "ScienceDirect – Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews : Geothermal energy for the benefit of the people". Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. 5: 299–312. doi:10.1016/S1364-0321(01)00002-8. Retrieved 14 November 2011. 
^ Paul Gipe (4 April 2013). "100 Percent Renewable Vision Building". Renewable Energy World. 
^ IPCC (2011). "Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation" (PDF). Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA. p. 17. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2014-01-11. 
^ S. Pacala; R. Socolow (2004). "Stabilization Wedges: Solving the Climate Problem for the Next 50 Years with Current Technologies" (PDF). Science Vol. 305. pp. 968–972. 
^ Mark A. Delucchi; Mark Z. Jacobson (2011). "Providing all global energy with wind, water, and solar power, Part II: Reliability, system and transmission costs, and policies" (PDF). Energy Policy. Elsevier Ltd. pp. 1170–1190. 
^ National Research Council (2010). "Electricity from Renewable Resources: Status, Prospects, and Impediments". National Academies of Science. p. 4. 
^ Amory Lovins (March–April 2012). "A Farewell to Fossil Fuels". Foreign Affairs. 
^ http://spectrum.ieee.org/energy/renewables/what-it-would-really-take-to-reverse-climate-change
^ "Philips Tornado Asian Compact Fluorescent". Philips. Retrieved 2007-12-24. 
^ Richard L. Kauffman Obstacles to Renewable Energy and Energy Efﬁciency[permanent dead link]. in: From Silos to Systems: Issues in Clean Energy and Climate Change. A report on the work of the REIL Network, 2008-2010. Edited by Parker L et al. Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies 2010
^ Diesendorf, Mark (2007). Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy, UNSW Press, p. 86.
^ Sophie Hebden (2006-06-22). "Invest in clean technology says IEA report". Scidev.net. Retrieved 2010-07-16. 
^ "The Twin Pillars of Sustainable Energy: Synergies between Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Technology and Policy". Aceee.org. Retrieved 2010-07-16. [dead link]
^ "News". Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. 
^ Fuel Cell Materials Technology in Vehicular Propulsion: Report. National Academies, 1983.
^ "Oak Ridge National Laboratory — Biomass, Solving the science is only part of the challenge". Retrieved 2008-01-06. 
^ GIC measurements eurisgic.org
^ Solar Terrestrial Dispatch - Leaders in Space Weather Forecasting Services
^ "Oil Price Leap in the Early Nineties," Noroil, December 1989, pages 35–38.
^ Opec Oil Outlook to 2025 Table 4, Page 12
^ Sustainable Development and Innovation in the Energy Sector. Ulrich Steger, Wouter Achterberg, Kornelis Blok, Henning Bode, Walter Frenz, Corinna Gather, Gerd Hanekamp, Dieter Imboden, Matthias Jahnke, Michael Kost, Rudi Kurz, Hans G. Nutzinger, Thomas Ziesemer. Springer, December 5, 2005.
^ Energy independence and security Archived April 5, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.: A reality check - Deloitte
^ Brittle Power: Energy Plan for National Security. Amory B. Lovins and L. Hunter Lovins (1982).
^ "The Fragility of Domestic Energy." Amory B. Lovins and L. Hunter Lovins. Atlantic Monthly. November 1983.
^ "Our Electric Future." Andrew Grove. The American. July/August 2008.
^ Andrew Grove and Robert Burgelman (December 2008). "An Electric Plan for Energy Resilience". McKinsey Quarterly. Retrieved 2010-07-20. 
^ Resilience in Energy: Building Infrastructure Today for Tomorrow's Automotive Fuel. Reform Institute. March 2009.[permanent dead link]
^ World energy consumption outlook from the International Energy Outlook, published by the U.S. DOE Energy Information Administration
^ Source: Energy Information Administration – International Energy Outlook 2004
^ Mandil, C. (2008) "Our energy for the future". S.A.P.I.EN.S. 1 (1)
^ Energy conservation through effective energy utilization. By United States. National Bureau of Standards, National Science Foundation (U.S.), Engineering Foundation (U.S.)
^ "Eating Fossil Fuels". Resilience. 
^ Peak Oil: the threat to our food security Archived July 14, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. retrieved 28 May 2009
^ Faunce TA, Lubitz W, Rutherford AW, MacFarlane D, Moore, GF, Yang P, Nocera DG, Moore TA, Gregory DH, Fukuzumi S, Yoon KB, Armstrong FA, Wasielewski MR, Styring S. ‘Energy and Environment Case for a Global Project on Artificial Photosynthesis.’ Energy and Environmental Science 2013, 6 (3), 695 - 698 DOI:10.1039/C3EE00063J http://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2013/ee/c3ee00063j (accessed 13 March 2013)
^ Joan Lisa Bromberg (October 2000). NASA and the Space Industry. JHU Press. p. 1. ISBN 978-0-8018-6532-9. Retrieved 10 June 2011. 
^ Kai-Uwe Schrogl (2 August 2010). Yearbook on Space Policy 2008/2009: Setting New Trends. Springer. p. 49. ISBN 978-3-7091-0317-3. Retrieved 10 June 2011. 
^ Propulsion Techniques: Action and Reaction edited by Peter J. Turchi. p341
^ Climate Change: The Science, Impacts and Solutions. Edited by A. Pittock
^ Future Spacecraft Propulsion Systems. By Paul A. Czysz, Claudio Bruno
^ Physics of the Future. By Michio Kaku.
^ Romano, Anthony F. (2005). "SPACE A Report on the Industry" (PDF). Defense Technical Information Center. Retrieved 15 May 2011. 


Sources[edit]

Armstrong, Robert C., Catherine Wolfram, Robert Gross, Nathan S. Lewis, and M.V. Ramana et al. The Frontiers of Energy, Nature Energy, Vol 1, 11 January 2016.
Serra, J. "Alternative Fuel Resource Development", Clean and Green Fuels Fund, (2006).
Bilgen, S. and K. Kaygusuz, Renewable Energy for a Clean and Sustainable Future, Energy Sources 26, 1119 (2004).
Energy analysis of Power Systems, UIC Nuclear Issues Briefing Paper 57 (2004).
Silvestre, B. S., Dalcol, P. R. T. Geographical proximity and innovation: Evidences from the Campos Basin oil & gas industrial agglomeration — Brazil. Technovation (2009), doi:10.1016/j.technovation.2009.01.003

Journals[edit]

Energy Sources, Part A: Recovery, Utilization and Environmental Effects
Energy Sources, Part B: Economics, Planning and Policy
International Journal of Green Energy

External links[edit]

Bureau of Land Management 2012 Renewable Energy Priority Projects
Energypedia - a wiki about renewable energies in the context of development cooperation
Hidden Health and Environmental Costs Of Energy Production and Consumption In U.S.
RECaBS REcalculator Interactive Renewable Energy Calculator — compare renewable energy to conventional energy sources
IEA-ECES - International Energy Agency - Energy Conservation through Energy Conservation programme.
IEA-SHC - International Energy Agency - Solar Heating and Cooling programme.
SDH - Solar District Heating Platform. (European Union)







v
t
e


Renewable energy by country






Africa



Ethiopia
Kenya
Morocco
Seychelles








Asia



Afghanistan
Armenia
Bangladesh
Bhutan
China
India
Kazakhstan
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Taiwan
Thailand








Europe



European Union (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom)
Albania
Iceland
Norway
Russia








North America



Canada
Costa Rica
Honduras
Mexico
United States








Oceania



Australia
New Zealand
Tuvalu








South America



Argentina
Brazil
Chile
Colombia











Category
Portals:
 Energy
 Renewable energy
 Sustainable development












v
t
e


Wind power






Wind power



Environmental impact
High-altitude
History
Land vehicles
Offshore
Turbines

on public display


Windmill











Wind turbines



Aerodynamics
Airborne
Crosswind kite
Darrieus
Design
Floating
Savonius
Small
Unconventional
Vertical axis








Wind power industry



Consulting companies
Farm management
Manufacturers
Software
Windmade








Wind farms



Community-owned
Farms by country
Offshore farms

by country


Onshore farms








Concepts



Betz's law
Capacity factor
EROEI
Forecasting
Grid energy storage
HVDC
Intermittency
Variability
Laddermill
Net energy gain
Resource assessment
Storage
Subsidies
Virtual power plant
Wind hybrid power systems
Wind profile power law












v
t
e


Solar energy






Concepts



The Sun
Insolation
Solar radiation
Active and passive solar energy








Solar power





Thermal




Passive solar building design
Solar water heating
Solar chimney
Solar air conditioning
Thermal mass
Solar pond









Photovoltaics
and related topics




Photovoltaic effect
Solar cell
Polymer solar cell
Nanocrystal solar cell
Photovoltaic module (solar panel)
Photovoltaic array (and systems)
Photovoltaic power station









Concentrated




Heliostat
Solar tracker
Parabolic trough
Solar power tower









Experimental
and proposed




Solar updraft tower
Solar-pumped laser
Thermoelectric generator
Solar chemical and artificial photosynthesis
Space-based solar power
Solar sail
Magnetic sail
Solar thermal rocket









By country




Australia
Austria
Albania
Belgium
Brazil
Canada
China
Czech
Denmark
Georgia
Germany
Greece
India
Israel
Italy
Japan
Lithuania
Mexico
Morocco
Myanmar
Netherlands
New Zealand
Pakistan
Portugal
Romania
Saudi Arabia
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Thailand
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Yemen











Distribution
and uses





Storage




Thermal mass
Thermal energy storage
Phase change material
Grid energy storage









Adoption




Feed-in tariff
Net metering
Financial incentives for photovoltaics
Costs









Applications




Solar water heating
Solar vehicle
Electric aircraft
Electric boat
Solar balloon











Other applications





Agriculture
and horticulture




Greenhouse
Polytunnel
Row cover
Solar-powered pump









Building


Passive solar building design

Building-integrated photovoltaics
Urban heat island









Lighting




Hybrid solar lighting
Solar lamp
Solar Tuki
Light tube
Daylighting









Process heat




Solar pond
Solar furnace
Salt evaporation pond









Cooking




Solar cooker









Disinfection




Solar water disinfection
Soil solarization









Desalination




Solar still
Desalination









Water heating




Solar water heating
Solar combisystem
Zero carbon solar controller











See also



Photovoltaics topics
Solar power by country
Renewable energy sources












v
t
e


Nuclear technology










Science



Chemistry
Engineering
Physics
Atomic nucleus
Fission
Fusion
Radiation

ionizing
braking










Fuel



Tritium
Deuterium
Helium-3
Fertile material
Fissile material
Isotope separation
Uranium

enriched
depleted


Plutonium
Thorium








Neutron



Activation
Capture
Poison
Cross section
Generator
Radiation
Reflector
Temperature
Thermal
Fast
Fusion








Power



by country
Power plant
Economics
Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
Accidents and incidents
Policy
Fusion
Radioisotope thermoelectric (RTG)
Propulsion

rocket


Safety and security








Medicine




Imaging



RadBall
Scintigraphy
Single-photon emission (SPECT)
Positron-emission tomography (PET)








Therapy



Fast-neutron
Neutron capture therapy of cancer
Targeted alpha-particle
Proton-beam
Tomotherapy
Brachytherapy
Radiation therapy
Radiosurgery
Radiopharmacology











Weapons




Topics



Arms race
Delivery
Design
Disarmament
Ethics
Explosion

effects


History
Proliferation
Testing

high-altitude
underground


Warfare
Yield

TNTe










Lists



States with nuclear weapons
Tests

United States


WMD treaties
Weapon-free zones
Weapons











Waste




Products



Actinide

Reprocessed uranium
Reactor-grade plutonium
Minor actinide


Activation
Fission

LLFP


Actinide chemistry








Disposal



Fuel cycle
High-level (HLW)
Low-level (LLW)
Repository
Reprocessing
Spent fuel

pool
cask


Transmutation











Debate



Nuclear power
Nuclear weapons
Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future
Anti-nuclear movement
Uranium mining
Nuclear power phase-out















 
Nuclear reactors










 
Fission







by primary moderator






Light water



Natural fission reactor
Aqueous homogeneous reactor
Boiling

BWR
Advanced (ABWR)
ESBWR


Pressurized

AP1000
APR-1400
CPR-1000
EPR
OPR-1000
VVER


Supercritical (SCWR)








Heavy water



CANDU
Advanced (AHWR)
Pressurized (PHWR)
Steam-generating (SGHWR)
WR-1









Graphite 
by coolant





Water




H2O



RBMK
EGP-6











Gas




CO2



Uranium Naturel Graphite Gaz (UNGG)
Magnox
Advanced gas-cooled (AGR)








He



Ultra-high-temperature experiment (UHTREX)
Pebble-bed (PBMR) (HTR-PM)
Gas-turbine modular-helium (GTMHR)
Very-high-temperature (VHTR)











Molten-salt




FLiBe



Fuji MSR
Liquid-fluoride thorium reactor (LFTR)
Molten-Salt Reactor Experiment (MSRE)
Integral Molten Salt Reactor (IMSR)















None
(fast)








Breeder (FBR)
Integral (IFR)
Liquid-metal-cooled (LMFR)
Small sealed transportable autonomous (SSTAR)
Traveling-wave (TWR)
Energy Multiplier Module (EM2)
Reduced-moderation (RMWR)
Fast Breeder Test Reactor (FBTR)
Dual fluid reactor (DFR)








Generation IV



Sodium (SFR)

BN-600
BN-800
BN-1200
PFBR
CEFR


Lead (LFR)
Helium gas (GFR)











Others



Organically moderated and cooled reactor
Aircraft Reactor Experiment







 
Fusion







by confinement






Magnetic



Field-reversed configuration
Levitated dipole
Reversed field pinch
Spheromak
Stellarator
Tokamak








Inertial



Bubble (acoustic)
Fusor

electrostatic


Laser-driven
Magnetized-target
Z-pinch








Other



Dense plasma focus
Migma
Muon-catalyzed
Polywell
Pyroelectric

















 Category
Portal
 Commons












v
t
e


Environmental technology









Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology











Pollution



Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)








Renewable energy



Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)








Conservation



Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling












v
t
e


Petroleum industry









Petroleum
Primary energy












Benchmarks



Argus Sour
Bonny Light
Brent
Dubai
Indonesian
Isthmus-34 Light
Japan Cocktail
OPEC Reference Basket
Tapis
Urals
Western Canadian Select
West Texas Intermediate








Data




Natural gas



Consumption
Production
Reserves
Imports
Exports
Price








Petroleum



Consumption
Production
Reserves
Imports
Exports
Price (of gasoline and diesel)











Exploration



Core sampling
Geophysics
Integrated asset modelling
Petroleum engineering

Reservoir simulation
Seismic to simulation


Petroleum geology
Petrophysics
Reflection seismology (Seismic inversion)
Seismic source








Drilling



Blowout
Completion (Squeeze job)
Differential sticking
Directional drilling (Geosteering)
Drilling engineering
Drilling fluid (invasion)
Drill stem test
Lost circulation
Measurement
Tracers
Underbalanced drilling
Well logging








Production



Petroleum fiscal regime

Concessions
Production sharing agreements


Artificial lift

Pumpjack
Submersible pump (ESP)
Gas lift


Downstream
Enhanced oil recovery (EOR)

Steam injection
Gas reinjection


Midstream
Petroleum product
Pipeline transport
Refining
Upstream
Water injection
Well intervention
XT








History



1967 Oil Embargo
1973 oil crisis
1979 energy crisis
1980s oil glut
1990 oil price shock
2000s energy crisis
2010s oil glut
Founders
History of the petroleum industry
Nationalization
OPEC
Seven Sisters
Standard Oil
Oil market timelines








Provinces
and fields



List of natural gas fields
List of oil fields
East Midlands Oil Province
East Texas
Gulf of Mexico
Niger Delta
North Sea
Persian Gulf
Prudhoe Bay Oil Field
Russia
Venezuela
Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin








Other topics



Acronyms
Oil shale gas
Peak oil

mitigation
timing


People
Petrocurrency
Petrodollar recycling
Shale gas
Swing producer
Unconventional oil

heavy crude
oil sands
oil shale

















 
Companies and organisations











Major petroleum
companies





Supermajors



BP
Chevron
Eni
ExxonMobil
Royal Dutch Shell
Total









National oil
companies




ADNOC (UAE)
CNOOC (China)
CNPC (China)
Ecopetrol (Colombia)
Gazprom (Russia)
Iraq National Oil Company
Indian Oil Corporation
Kuwait Petroleum Corporation
Lotos (Poland)
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
NIOC (Iran)
NISOC (Iran)
OGDCL (Pakistan)
ONGC (India)
PDVSA (Venezuela)
PKN Orlen (Poland)
Pemex (Mexico)
Pertamina (Indonesia)
Petrobras (Brazil)
PetroChina
Petronas (Malaysia)
Petrovietnam
PTT (Thailand)
Qatar Petroleum
Rosneft (Russia)
Saudi Aramco (Saudi Arabia)
Sinopec (China)
SOCAR (Azerbaijan)
Sonangol (Angola)
Sonatrach (Algeria)
Statoil (Norway)
YPF (Argentina)








Energy trading



Glencore
Gunvor
Mercuria
Naftiran Intertrade
Trafigura
Vitol








Other



Anadarko
Apache
BG Group
Cenovus Energy
Compañía Española de Petróleos
ConocoPhillips
Devon
Galp Energia
Hess
Husky Energy
Imperial Oil
Lukoil
Marathon Oil
Nippon Oil
Occidental
OMV
Port Harcourt Refining Company
Reliance Industries
Repsol
Suncor Energy
Surgutneftegas
TNK-BP
Tullow Oil
Tüpraş












Major services
companies




Amec Foster Wheeler
Baker Hughes
Cameron
CGG
CH2M Hill
Chicago Bridge & Iron Company
China Oilfield Services
Enbridge
Ensco
GE Oil & Gas
Halliburton
Naftiran Intertrade
National Oilwell Varco
Petrofac
Saipem
Schlumberger
Snam
Subsea 7
Technip
TransCanada
Transocean
Weatherford
Wood Group








Other



International Association of Oil & Gas Producers
International Energy Agency
International Petroleum Exchange
OPEC
Society of Petroleum Engineers
World Petroleum Council

















Category
 Commons









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Energy_development&oldid=763282351"					
Categories: Energy developmentHidden categories: Pages with reference errorsWebarchive template wayback linksWebarchive template webcite linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from December 2016Articles with permanently dead external linksPages with duplicate reference namesCS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listPages with URL errorsArticles with dead external links from May 2016Pages using ISBN magic linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2012Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


AfrikaansCatalàفارسی한국어LietuviųMagyarSlovenščina中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 2 February 2017, at 09:57.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"1.060","walltime":"1.288","ppvisitednodes":{"value":10825,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":538245,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":42585,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":18,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":4,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  860.784      1 -total"," 51.47%  443.037      2 Template:Reflist"," 24.76%  213.146     65 Template:Cite_web"," 13.78%  118.604     22 Template:Navbox","  8.46%   72.795      2 Template:Navbox_with_collapsible_groups","  6.45%   55.525      1 Template:Nuclear_technology","  5.61%   48.305      6 Template:Fix","  4.69%   40.358      2 Template:Citation_needed","  3.48%   29.989     12 Template:Category_handler","  3.43%   29.539      1 Template:Convert"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.416","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":9436172,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1261","timestamp":"20170205103813","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":77,"wgHostname":"mw1253"});});
