 






Energy storage

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Further information: Wind power grid integration and List of energy storage projects




The Llyn Stwlan dam of the Ffestiniog Pumped Storage Scheme in Wales. The lower power station has four water turbines which can generate a total of 360 MW of electricity for several hours, an example of artificial energy storage and conversion.


Energy storage is the capture of energy produced at one time for use at a later time. A device that stores energy is sometimes called an accumulator. Energy comes in multiple forms including radiation, chemical, gravitational potential, electrical potential, electricity, elevated temperature, latent heat and kinetic. Energy storage involves converting energy from forms that are difficult to store to more conveniently or economically storable forms. Bulk energy storage is dominated by pumped hydro, which accounts for 99% of global energy storage.
Some technologies provide short-term energy storage, while others can endure for much longer.
A wind-up clock stores potential energy (in this case mechanical, in the spring tension), a rechargeable battery stores readily convertible chemical energy to operate a mobile phone, and a hydroelectric dam stores energy in a reservoir as gravitational potential energy. Fossil fuels such as coal and gasoline store ancient energy derived from sunlight by organisms that later died, became buried and over time were then converted into these fuels. Food (which is made by the same process as fossil fuels) is a form of energy stored in chemical form.
Ice storage tanks store ice frozen by cheaper energy at night to meet peak daytime demand for cooling. The energy isn't stored directly, but the work-product of consuming energy (pumping away heat) is stored, having the equivalent effect on daytime consumption.



Contents


1 History

1.1 Prehistory
1.2 Recent History


2 Methods

2.1 Outline
2.2 Mechanical storage

2.2.1 Hydroelectricity
2.2.2 Pumped-storage
2.2.3 Compressed air
2.2.4 Flywheel energy storage
2.2.5 Gravitational potential energy storage with solid masses


2.3 Thermal storage

2.3.1 Latent heat thermal energy storage (LHTES)


2.4 Electrochemical

2.4.1 Rechargeable battery

2.4.1.1 Flow battery


2.4.2 Supercapacitor
2.4.3 UltraBattery


2.5 Other chemical

2.5.1 Power to gas

2.5.1.1 Hydrogen
2.5.1.2 Methane


2.5.2 Power to liquid
2.5.3 Biofuels
2.5.4 Aluminium, boron, silicon, and zinc


2.6 Electrical methods

2.6.1 Capacitor
2.6.2 Superconducting magnetics


2.7 Interseasonal thermal storage


3 Applications

3.1 Mills
3.2 Home energy storage
3.3 Grid electricity

3.3.1 Renewable energy storage
3.3.2 Generation


3.4 Air conditioning
3.5 Transport
3.6 Electronics


4 Use cases
5 Storage capacity
6 Economics
7 Research

7.1 Germany
7.2 United States
7.3 United Kingdom


8 See also
9 References
10 Further reading
11 External links



History[edit]
Prehistory[edit]
The energy present at the initial formation of the universe is stored in stars such as the Sun, and is used by humans directly (e.g. through solar heating or sun tanning), or indirectly (e.g. by growing crops, consuming photosynthesized plants or conversion into electricity in solar cells).
As a purposeful activity, energy storage has existed since pre-history, though it was often not explicitly recognized as such. An example of mechanical energy storage is the use of logs or boulders as defensive measures in ancient forts—the logs or boulders were collected at the top of a hill or wall, and the energy thus stored was used to attack invaders who came within range. Certainly, storing dried wood or another source for fire, or preserving edible food or seeds, in dry or cool areas such as in a cave, under rocks or underground, serves as other examples of energy storage.
Recent History[edit]
In the twentieth century grid electrical power was largely generated by burning fossil fuel. When less power was required, less fuel was burned. Concerns with air pollution, energy imports and global warming have spawned the growth of renewable energy such as solar and wind power. Wind power is uncontrolled and may be generating at a time when no additional power is needed. Solar power varies with cloud cover and at best is only available during daylight hours, while demand often peaks after sunset (see duck curve). Interest in storing power from these intermittent sources grows as the renewable energy industry begins to generate a larger fraction of overall energy consumption.
Off grid electrical use was a niche market in the twentieth century, but in the twenty first century it has expanded. Portable devices are in use all over the world. Solar panels are now a common sight in the rural settings worldwide. Access to electricity is now a question of economics, not location. Powering transportation without burning fuel, however, remains in development.
Methods[edit]
Outline[edit]
See also: Outline of energy storage
The following list includes natural and other non-commercial types of energy storage. in addition to those designed for use in industry and commerce:


Mechanical

Compressed air energy storage (CAES)
Fireless locomotive
Flywheel energy storage
Gravitational potential energy (device)
Hydraulic accumulator
Liquid nitrogen
Pumped-storage hydroelectricity


Electrical

Capacitor
Superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES)


Biological

Glycogen
Starch


Electrochemical

Flow battery
Rechargeable battery
Supercapacitor
UltraBattery


Thermal

Brick storage heater
Cryogenic liquid air or nitrogen
Eutectic system
Ice storage air conditioning
Molten salt
Phase Change Material
Seasonal thermal energy storage
Solar pond
Steam accumulator
Thermal energy storage (general)


Chemical

Biofuels
Hydrated salts
Hydrogen
Hydrogen peroxide
Power to gas
Vanadium pentoxide




Mechanical storage[edit]
Energy can be stored in water pumped to a higher elevation using pumped storage methods and also by moving solid matter to higher locations. Other commercial mechanical methods include compressing air and flywheels that convert electric energy into kinetic energy and then back again when electrical demand peaks.
Hydroelectricity[edit]
Main article: Hydroelectricity
Hydroelectric dams with reservoirs can be operated to provide peak generation at times of peak demand. Water is stored in the reservoir during periods of low demand and released when demand is high. The net effect is similar to pumped storage, but without the pumping loss.
While a hydroelectric dam does not directly store energy from other generating units, it behaves equivalently by lowering output in periods of excess electricity from other sources. In this mode, dams are one of the most efficient forms of energy storage, because only the timing of its generation changes. Hydroelectric turbines have a start-up time on the order of a few minutes.[1]
Pumped-storage[edit]




The Sir Adam Beck Generating Complex at Niagara Falls, Canada, which includes a large pumped storage hydroelectricity reservoir to provide an extra 174 MW of electricity during periods of peak demand.


Main article: Pumped-storage hydroelectricity
Worldwide, pumped-storage hydroelectricity (PSH) is the largest-capacity form of active grid energy storage available, and, as of March 2012, the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI) reports that PSH accounts for more than 99% of bulk storage capacity worldwide, representing around 127,000 MW.[2] PSH reported energy efficiency varies in practice between 70% and 80%,[2][3][4][5] with claims of up to 87%.[6]
At times of low electrical demand, excess generation capacity is used to pump water from a lower source into a higher reservoir. When demand grows, water is released back into a lower reservoir (or waterway or body of water) through a turbine, generating electricity. Reversible turbine-generator assemblies act as both a pump and turbine (usually a Francis turbine design). Nearly all facilities use the height difference between two water bodies. Pure pumped-storage plants shift the water between reservoirs, while the "pump-back" approach is a combination of pumped storage and conventional hydroelectric plants that use natural stream-flow.
Compressed air[edit]




A compressed air locomotive used inside a mine between 1928 and 1961.


Main article: Compressed air energy storage
Compressed air energy storage (CAES) uses surplus energy to compress air for subsequent electricity generation.[7] Small scale systems have long been used in such applications as propulsion of mine locomotives. The compressed air is stored in an underground reservoir.
Compression of air creates heat; the air is warmer after compression. Expansion requires heat. If no extra heat is added, the air will be much colder after expansion. If the heat generated during compression can be stored and used during expansion, efficiency improves considerably.[8] A CAES system can deal with the heat in three ways. Air storage can be adiabatic, diabatic, or isothermal. Another approach uses compressed air to power vehicles.[9][10]
Flywheel energy storage[edit]




The main components of a typical flywheel.


Main articles: Flywheel energy storage and Flywheel storage power system
Flywheel energy storage (FES) works by accelerating a rotor (flywheel) to a very high speed, holding energy as rotational energy. When energy is extracted, the flywheel's rotational speed declines as a consequence of conservation of energy; adding energy correspondingly results in an increase in the speed of the flywheel.
Most FES systems use electricity to accelerate and decelerate the flywheel, but devices that directly use mechanical energy are under consideration.[11]
FES systems have rotors made of high strength carbon-fiber composites, suspended by magnetic bearings and spinning at speeds from 20,000 to over 50,000 rpm in a vacuum enclosure.[12] Such flywheels can reach maximum speed ("charge") in a matter of minutes. The flywheel system is connected to a combination electric motor/generator.




A Flybrid Kinetic Energy Recovery System flywheel. Built for use on Formula 1 racing cars, it is employed to recover and reuse kinetic energy captured during braking.


FES systems have relatively long lifetimes (lasting decades with little or no maintenance;[12] full-cycle lifetimes quoted for flywheels range from in excess of 105, up to 107, cycles of use),[13] high energy density (100–130 W·h/kg, or 360–500 kJ/kg)[13][14] and power density.
Gravitational potential energy storage with solid masses[edit]
Changing the altitude of solid masses can store or release energy via an elevating system driven by an electric motor/generator.
Companies such as Energy Cache and Advanced Rail Energy Storage (ARES) are working on this.[15][16] ARES uses rails to move concrete weights up and down.[17] Stratosolar proposes to use winches supported by buoyant platforms at an altitude of 20 kilometers, to raise and lower solid masses.[18] Sink Float Solutions proposes to use winches supported by an ocean barge for taking advantage of a 4 km (13,000 ft) elevation difference between the surface and the seabed.[19] ARES estimated a capital cost for the storage capacity of around 60% of pump storage hydroelectricity,[20] Stratosolar $100/kWh[21] and Sink Float Solutions $25/kWh (4000 m depth) and $50/kWh (with 2000 m depth).[19]
Potential energy storage or gravity energy storage was under active development in 2013 in association with the California Independent System Operator.[22][23][24] It examined the movement of earth-filled hopper rail cars driven by electric locomotives) from lower to higher elevations.[16]
ARES claimed advantages including indefinite storage with no energy losses, low costs when earth/rocks are used and conservation of water resources.[16][25]
Thermal storage[edit]




District heating accumulation tower from Theiss near Krems an der Donau in Lower Austria with a thermal capacity of 2 GWh


Main articles: Thermal energy storage and Seasonal thermal energy storage
Thermal storage is the temporary storage or removal of heat. TES is practical because of water's large heat of fusion: the melting of one metric ton of ice (approximately one cubic metre in size) can capture 334 megajoules [MJ] (317,000 BTU) of thermal energy.
An example is Alberta, Canada's Drake Landing Solar Community, for which 97% of the year-round heat is provided by solar-thermal collectors on the garage roofs, with a borehole thermal energy store (BTES) being the enabling technology.[26][27][28] STES projects often have paybacks in the four-to-six year range.[29] In Braestrup, Denmark, the community's solar district heating system also utilizes STES, at a storage temperature of 65 °C (149 °F). A heat pump, which is run only when there is surplus wind power available on the national grid, is used to raise the temperature to 80 °C (176 °F) for distribution. When surplus wind generated electricity is not available, a gas-fired boiler is used. Twenty percent of Braestrup's heat is solar.[30]
 Latent heat thermal energy storage (LHTES)[edit]
Latent heat thermal energy storage systems works with materials with high latent heat (heat of fusion) capacity, known as phase change materials (PCMs). The main advantage of these materials is that their latent heat storage capacity is much more than sensible heat. In a specific temperature range, phase changes from solid to liquid absorbs a large amount of thermal energy for later use.
Electrochemical[edit]
Rechargeable battery[edit]




A rechargeable battery bank used as an uninterruptible power supply in a data center


Main articles: Rechargeable battery and Battery storage power station
A rechargeable battery, comprises one or more electrochemical cells. It is known as a 'secondary cell' because its electrochemical reactions are electrically reversible. Rechargeable batteries come in many different shapes and sizes, ranging from button cells to megawatt grid systems.
Rechargeable batteries have lower total cost of use and environmental impact than non-rechargeable (disposable) batteries. Some rechargeable battery types are available in the same form factors as disposables. Rechargeable batteries have higher initial cost but can be recharged very cheaply and used many times.
Common rechargeable battery chemistries include:

Lead–acid battery: Lead acid batteries hold the largest market share of electric storage products. A single cell produces about 2V when charged. In the charged state the metallic lead negative electrode and the lead sulfate positive electrode are immersed in a dilute sulfuric acid (H2SO4) electrolyte. In the discharge process electrons are pushed out of the cell as lead sulfate is formed at the negative electrode while the electrolyte is reduced to water.
Nickel–cadmium battery (NiCd): Uses nickel oxide hydroxide and metallic cadmium as electrodes. Cadmium is a toxic element, and was banned for most uses by the European Union in 2004. Nickel–cadmium batteries have been almost completely replaced by nickel–metal hydride (NiMH) batteries.
Nickel–metal hydride battery (NiMH): First commercial types were available in 1989.[31] These are now a common consumer and industrial type. The battery has a hydrogen-absorbing alloy for the negative electrode instead of cadmium.
Lithium-ion battery: The choice in many consumer electronics and have one of the best energy-to-mass ratios and a very slow self-discharge when not in use.
Lithium-ion polymer battery: These batteries are light in weight and can be made in any shape desired.

Flow battery[edit]
Main articles: Flow battery and Vanadium redox battery
A flow battery operates by passing a solution over a membrane where ions are exchanged to charge/discharge the cell. Cell voltage is chemically determined by the Nernst equation and ranges, in practical applications, from 1.0 to 2.2 V. Its storage capacity is a function of the volume of the tanks holding the solution.
A flow battery is technically akin both to a fuel cell and an electrochemical accumulator cell. Commercial applications are for long half-cycle storage such as backup grid power.
Supercapacitor[edit]




One of a fleet of electric capabuses powered by supercapacitors, at a quick-charge station-bus stop, in service during Expo 2010 Shanghai China. Charging rails can be seen suspended over the bus.


Main article: Supercapacitor
Supercapacitors, also called electric double-layer capacitors (EDLC) or ultracapacitors, are generic terms for a family of electrochemical capacitors[32] that do not have conventional solid dielectrics. Capacitance is determined by two storage principles, double-layer capacitance and pseudocapacitance.[33][34][35]
Supercapacitors bridge the gap between conventional capacitors and rechargeable batteries. They store the most energy per unit volume or mass (energy density) among capacitors. They support up to 10,000 farads/1.2 volt,[36] up to 10,000 times that of electrolytic capacitors, but deliver or accept less than half as much power per unit time (power density).[32]
While supercapacitors have energy densities that are approximately 10% of batteries, their power density is generally 10 to 100 times greater. This results in much shorter charge/discharge cycles. Additionally, they will tolerate many more charge and discharge cycles than batteries.
Supercapacitors support a broad spectrum of applications, including:

Low supply current for memory backup in static random-access memory (SRAM)
Power for cars, buses, trains, cranes and elevators, including energy recovery from braking, short-term energy storage and burst-mode power delivery

UltraBattery[edit]
Main article: UltraBattery
The UltraBattery is a hybrid lead-acid cell and carbon-based ultracapacitor (or supercapacitor) invented by Australia’s national research body, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO). The lead-acid cell and ultracapacitor share the sulfuric acid electrolyte and both are packaged into the same physical unit.[37] The UltraBattery can be manufactured with similar physical and electrical characteristics to conventional lead-acid batteries making it possible to cost-effectively replace many lead-acid applications.
The UltraBattery tolerates high charge and discharge levels and endures large numbers of cycles, outperforming previous lead-acid cells by more than an order of magnitude.[38] In hybrid-electric vehicle tests, millions of cycles have been achieved.[39] The UltraBattery is also highly tolerant to the effects of sulfation compared with traditional lead-acid cells.[40] This means it can operate continuously in partial state of charge whereas traditional lead-acid batteries are generally held at full charge between discharge events. It is generally electrically inefficient to fully charge a lead-acid battery so by decreasing time spent in the top region of charge the UltraBattery achieves high efficiencies, typically between 85 and 95% DC-DC.[41]
The UltraBattery can work across a wide range of applications. The constant cycling and fast charging and discharging necessary for applications such as grid regulation and leveling and electric vehicles can damage chemical batteries, but are well handled by the ultracapacitive qualities of UltraBattery technology. The technology has been installed in Australia and the US on the megawatt scale, performing frequency regulation and renewable smoothing applications.
Other chemical[edit]
Power to gas[edit]
Main article: Power to gas
Power to gas is a technology which converts electricity into a gaseous fuel such as hydrogen or methane. The three commercial methods use electricity to reduce water into hydrogen and oxygen by means of electrolysis.
In the first method, hydrogen is injected into the natural gas grid or is used in transport or industry. The second method is to combine the hydrogen with carbon dioxide to produce methane using a methanation reaction such as the Sabatier reaction, or biological methanation, resulting in an extra energy conversion loss of 8%. The methane may then be fed into the natural gas grid. The third method uses the output gas of a wood gas generator or a biogas plant, after the biogas upgrader is mixed with the hydrogen from the electrolyzer, to upgrade the quality of the biogas.
Hydrogen[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen storage
The element hydrogen can be a form of stored energy. Hydrogen can produce electricity via a hydrogen fuel cell.
At penetrations below 20% of the grid demand, renewables do not severely change the economics; but beyond about 20% of the total demand,[citation needed] external storage becomes important.[42] If these sources are used to make ionic hydrogen, they can be freely expanded. A 5-year community-based pilot program using wind turbines and hydrogen generators began in 2007 in the remote community of Ramea, Newfoundland and Labrador.[43] A similar project began in 2004 on Utsira, a small Norwegian island.
Energy losses involved in the hydrogen storage cycle come from the electrolysis of water, liquification or compression of the hydrogen and conversion to electricity.[44]
About 50 kW·h (180 MJ) of solar energy is required to produce a kilogram of hydrogen, so the cost of the electricity is crucial. At $0.03/kWh, a common off-peak high-voltage line rate in the United States, hydrogen costs $1.50 a kilogram for the electricity, equivalent to $1.50/gallon for gasoline. Other costs include the electrolyzer plant, hydrogen compressors or liquefaction, storage and transportation.[citation needed]
Underground hydrogen storage is the practice of hydrogen storage in underground caverns, salt domes and depleted oil and gas fields.[45][46] Large quantities of gaseous hydrogen have been stored in underground caverns by Imperial Chemical Industries for many years without any difficulties.[47] The European Hyunder project indicated in 2013 that storage of wind and solar energy using underground hydrogen would require 85 caverns.[48]
Methane[edit]
Main article: Substitute natural gas
Methane is the simplest hydrocarbon with the molecular formula CH4. Methane is more easily stored and transported than hydrogen. Storage and combustion infrastructure (pipelines, gasometers, power plants) are mature.
Synthetic natural gas (syngas or SNG) can be created in a multi-step process, starting with hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrogen is then reacted with carbon dioxide in a Sabatier process, producing methane and water. Methane can be stored and later used to produce electricity. The resulting water is recycled, reducing the need for water. In the electrolysis stage oxygen is stored for methane combustion in a pure oxygen environment at an adjacent power plant, eliminating nitrogen oxides.
Methane combustion produces carbon dioxide (CO2) and water. The carbon dioxide can be recycled to boost the Sabatier process and water can be recycled for further electrolysis. Methane production, storage and combustion recycles the reaction products.
The CO2 has economic value as a component of an energy storage vector, not a cost as in carbon capture and storage.
Power to liquid[edit]
Power to liquid is similar to power to gas, however the hydrogen produced by electrolysis from wind and solar electricity isn't converted into gases such as methane but into liquids such as methanol. Methanol is easier in handling than gases and requires less safety precautions than hydrogen. It can be used for transportation, including aircraft, but also for industrial purposes or in the power sector.[49]
Biofuels[edit]
Main article: Biofuel
Various biofuels such as biodiesel, vegetable oil, alcohol fuels, or biomass can replace fossil fuels. Various chemical processes can convert the carbon and hydrogen in coal, natural gas, plant and animal biomass and organic wastes into short hydrocarbons suitable as replacements for existing hydrocarbon fuels. Examples are Fischer–Tropsch diesel, methanol, dimethyl ether and syngas. This diesel source was used extensively in World War II in Germany, which faced limited access to crude oil supplies. South Africa produces most of the country's diesel from coal for similar reasons.[50] A long term oil price above US$35/bbl may make such large scale synthetic liquid fuels economical.
Aluminium, boron, silicon, and zinc[edit]
Aluminium,[51] Boron,[52] silicon,[53] lithium, and zinc[54] have been proposed as energy storage solutions.
Electrical methods[edit]
Capacitor[edit]
Main article: capacitor




This mylar-film, oil-filled capacitor has very low inductance and low resistance, to provide the high-power (70 megawatts) and the very high speed (1.2 microsecond) discharges needed to operate a dye laser.


A capacitor (originally known as a 'condenser') is a passive two-terminal electrical component used to store energy electrostatically. Practical capacitors vary widely, but all contain at least two electrical conductors (plates) separated by a dielectric (i.e., insulator). A capacitor can store electric energy when disconnected from its charging circuit, so it can be used like a temporary battery, or like other types of rechargeable energy storage system.[55] Capacitors are commonly used in electronic devices to maintain power supply while batteries change. (This prevents loss of information in volatile memory.) Conventional capacitors provide less than 360 joules per kilogram, while a conventional alkaline battery has a density of 590 kJ/kg.
Capacitors store energy in an electrostatic field between their plates. Given a potential difference across the conductors (e.g., when a capacitor is attached across a battery), an electric field develops across the dielectric, causing positive charge (+Q) to collect on one plate and negative charge (-Q) to collect on the other plate. If a battery is attached to a capacitor for a sufficient amount of time, no current can flow through the capacitor. However, if an accelerating or alternating voltage is applied across the leads of the capacitor, a displacement current can flow.
Capacitance is greater given a narrower separation between conductors and when the conductors have a larger surface area. In practice, the dielectric between the plates emits a small amount of leakage current and has an electric field strength limit, known as the breakdown voltage. The conductors and leads introduce undesired inductance and resistance.
Research is assessing the quantum effects of nanoscale capacitors for digital quantum batteries.[56][57]
Superconducting magnetics[edit]
Main article: Superconducting magnetic energy storage
Superconducting magnetic energy storage (SMES) systems store energy in a magnetic field created by the flow of direct current in a superconducting coil that has been cooled to a temperature below its superconducting critical temperature. A typical SMES system includes a superconducting coil, power conditioning system and refrigerator. Once the superconducting coil is charged, the current does not decay and the magnetic energy can be stored indefinitely.[58]
The stored energy can be released to the network by discharging the coil. The associated inverter/rectifier accounts for about 2–3% energy loss in each direction. SMES loses the least amount of electricity in the energy storage process compared to other methods of storing energy. SMES systems offer round-trip efficiency greater than 95%.[59]
Due to the energy requirements of refrigeration and the cost of superconducting wire, SMES is used for short duration storage such as improving power quality. It also has applications in grid balancing.[58]
Interseasonal thermal storage[edit]
Seasonal thermal energy storage (STES) allows heat or cold to be used months after it was collected from waste energy or natural sources. The material can be stored in contained aquifers, clusters of boreholes in geological substrates such as sand or crystalline bedrock, in lined pits filled with gravel and water, or water-filled mines.
Applications[edit]
Mills[edit]
A more recent application is the control of waterways to drive water mills for processing grain or powering machinery. Complex systems of reservoirs and dams were constructed to store and release water (and the potential energy it contained) when required.[citation needed]
Home energy storage[edit]
Main article: Solar battery
Home energy storage is expected to become increasingly present given the growing importance of distributed generation (especially photovoltaics) and the important share of energy consumption in buildings.[60] A household equipped with photovoltaics can achieve a maximum electricity self-sufficiency of about 40%. To reach higher levels of self-sufficiency, energy storage is needed, given the mismatch between energy consumption and energy production from photovoltaics.[60] In 2015, multiple manufacturers announced rechargeable battery systems for storing energy, generally to hold surplus energy from home solar/wind generation.
Tesla Motors announced the first two models of the Tesla Powerwall. One is a 10 kWh weekly cycle version for backup applications and the other is a 7 kWh version for daily cycle applications.[61]
Enphase Energy announced an integrated system that allows home users to store, monitor and manage electricity. The system stores 1.2 kWh hours of energy and 275W/500W power output.[62]
Grid electricity[edit]
Main article: Grid energy storage
Renewable energy storage[edit]




Construction of the Salt Tanks which provide efficient thermal energy storage[63] so that output can be provided after the sun goes down, and output can be scheduled to meet demand requirements.[64] The 280 MW Solana Generating Station is designed to provide six hours of energy storage. This allows the plant to generate about 38 percent of its rated capacity over the course of a year.[65]






The 150 MW Andasol solar power station is a commercial parabolic trough solar thermal power plant, located in Spain. The Andasol plant uses tanks of molten salt to store solar energy so that it can continue generating electricity even when the sun isn't shining.[66]


The largest source and the greatest store of renewable energy is provided by hydroelectric dams. A large reservoir behind a dam can store enough water to average the annual flow of a river between dry and wet seasons. A very large reservoir can store enough water to average the flow of a river between dry and wet years. While a hydroelectric dam does not directly store energy from intermittent sources, it does balance the grid by lowering its output and retaining its water when power is generated by solar or wind. If wind or solar generation exceeds the regions hydroelectric capacity, then some additional source of energy will be needed.
Many renewable energy sources (notably solar and wind) produce variable power.[67] Storage systems can level out the imbalances between supply and demand that this causes. Electricity must be used as it is generated or converted immediately into storable forms.[68]
The main method of electrical grid storage is pumped-storage hydroelectricity. Areas of the world such as Norway, Wales, Japan and the US have used elevated geographic features for reservoirs, using electrically powered pumps to fill them. When needed, the water passes through generators and converts the gravitational potential of the falling water into electricity.[67] Pumped storage in Norway, which gets almost all its electricity from hydro, has an instantaneous capacity of 25–30 GW expandable to 60 GW—enough to be "Europe's battery".[68][69]
Some forms of storage that produce electricity include pumped-storage hydroelectric dams, rechargeable batteries, thermal storage including molten salts which can efficiently store and release very large quantities of heat energy,[70] and compressed air energy storage, flywheels, cryogenic systems and superconducting magnetic coils.
Surplus power can also be converted into methane (sabatier process) with stockage in the natural gas network.[71][72]
In 2011, the Bonneville Power Administration in Northwestern United States created an experimental program to absorb excess wind and hydro power generated at night or during stormy periods that are accompanied by high winds. Under central control, home appliances absorb surplus energy by heating ceramic bricks in special space heaters to hundreds of degrees and by boosting the temperature of modified hot water heater tanks. After charging, the appliances provide home heating and hot water as needed. The experimental system was created as a result of a severe 2010 storm that overproduced renewable energy to the extent that all conventional power sources were shut down, or in the case of a nuclear power plant, reduced to its lowest possible operating level, leaving a large area running almost completely on renewable energy.[73][74]
Another advanced method used at the Solar Project in the United States and the Solar Tres Power Tower in Spain uses molten salt to store thermal energy captured from the sun and then convert it and dispatch it as electrical power. The system pumps molten salt through a tower or other special conduits to be heated by the sun. Insulated tanks store the solution. Electricity is produced by turning water to steam that is fed to turbines.
Since the early 21st century batteries have been applied to utility scale load-leveling and frequency regulation capabilities.[67]
In vehicle-to-grid storage, electric vehicles that are plugged into the energy grid can deliver stored electrical energy from their batteries into the grid when needed.
Generation[edit]
Chemical fuels remain the dominant form of energy storage for electricity generation. Natural gas is crowding out other forms, such as oil and coal.
Air conditioning[edit]
Main article: Ice storage air conditioning
Thermal energy storage (TES) can be used for air conditioning.[75] It is most widely used for cooling single large buildings and/or groups of smaller buildings. Commercial air conditioning systems are the biggest contributors to peak electrical loads. In 2009, thermal storage was used in over 3,300 buildings in over 35 countries. It works by creating ice at night and using the ice to for cooling during the hotter daytime periods.[70]
The most popular technique is ice storage, which requires less space than water and is less costly than fuel cells or flywheels. In this application, a standard chiller runs at night to produce an ice pile. Water then circulates through the pile during the day to chill water that would normally be the chiller's daytime output.
A partial storage system minimizes capital investment by running the chillers nearly 24 hours a day. At night, they produce ice for storage and during the day they chill water. Water circulating through the melting ice augments the production of chilled water. Such a system makes ice for 16 to 18 hours a day and melts ice for six hours a day. Capital expenditures are reduced because the chillers can be just 40 - 50% of the size needed for a conventional, no-storage design. Storage sufficient to store half a day's available heat is usually adequate.
A full storage system shuts off the chillers during peak load hours. Capital costs are higher, as such a system requires larger chillers and a larger ice storage system.
This ice is produced when electrical utility rates are lower.[76] Off-peak cooling systems can lower energy costs. The U.S. Green Building Council has developed the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) program to encourage the design of reduced-environmental impact buildings. Off-peak cooling may help toward LEED Certification.[77]
Thermal storage for heating is less common than for cooling. An example of thermal storage is storing solar heat to be used for heating at night.
Latent heat can also be stored in technical phase change materials (PCMs). These can be encapsulated in wall and ceiling panels, to moderate room temperatures.
Transport[edit]
Liquid hydrocarbon fuels are the most commonly used forms of energy storage for use in transportation. Other energy carriers such as hydrogen can be used to avoid producing greenhouse gases.
Electronics[edit]
Capacitors are widely used in electronic circuits for blocking direct current while allowing alternating current to pass. In analog filter networks, they smooth the output of power supplies. In resonant circuits they tune radios to particular frequencies. In electric power transmission systems they stabilize voltage and power flow.[78]
Use cases[edit]
Main article: United States Department of Energy International Energy Storage Database
The United States Department of Energy International Energy Storage Database (IESDB), is a free-access database of energy storage projects and policies funded by the United States Department of Energy Office of Electricity and Sandia National Labs.[79]
Storage capacity[edit]
Storage capacity is the amount of energy a power plant energy storage system can store, in number of hours of electricity production at power plant nameplate capacity, delivered only with energy from the power plant embedded storage system. Storage maybe of chemical, kinetic energy, potential energy, thermal or other type.[80]
Economics[edit]
The economics of Energy Storage strictly depends on the reserve service requested, and several uncertainty factors affect the profitability of Energy Storage. Therefore, not every Energy Storage is technically and economically suitable for the storage of several MWh, and the optimal size of the Energy Storage is market and location dependent.[81]
Moreover, ESS are affected by several risks, e.g.:[82]
1) techno-economic risks, which are related to the specific technology;
2) Market risks, which are the factors that affect the electricity supply system;
3) Regulation and policy risks.
Therefore, traditional techniques based on deterministic Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) for the investment appraisal are not fully adequate to evaluate these risks and uncertainties and the investor’s flexibility to deal with them. Hence, the literature recommends to assess the value of risks and uncertainties through the Real Option Analysis (ROA), which is a valuable method in uncertain contexts.[82]
The economic valuation of large-scale applications (including pumped hydro storage and compressed air) considers benefits including: wind curtailment avoidance, grid congestion avoidance, price arbitrage and carbon free energy delivery.[70][83][84] In one technical assessment by the Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Centre, economic goals could be met with batteries if energy storage were achievable at a capital cost of $30 to $50 per kilowatt-hour of storage capacity.[70]
A metric for calculating the energy efficiency of storage systems is Energy Storage On Energy Invested (ESOI) which is the useful energy used to make the storage system divided into the lifetime energy storage. For lithium ion batteries this is around 10, and for lead acid batteries it is about 2. Other forms of storage such as pumped hydroelectric storage generally have higher ESOI, such as 210.[85]
Research[edit]
Germany[edit]
The German Federal government has allocated €200M (approximately US$270M) for advanced research, as well as providing a further €50M to subsidize battery storage for use with residential rooftop solar panels, according to a representative of the German Energy Storage Association.[86]
Siemens AG commissioned a production-research plant to open in 2015 at the Zentrum für Sonnenenergie und Wasserstoff (ZSW, the German Center for Solar Energy and Hydrogen Research in the State of Baden-Württemberg), a university/industry collaboration in Stuttgart, Ulm and Widderstall, staffed by approximately 350 scientists, researchers, engineers, and technicians. The plant develops new near-production manufacturing materials and processes (NPMM&P) using a computerized Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system. Its goals will enable the expansion of rechargeable battery production with both increased quality and reduced manufacturing costs.[87][88]
United States[edit]
In 2014, research and test centers opened to evaluate energy storage technologies. Among them was the Advanced Systems Test Laboratory at the University of Wisconsin at Madison in Wisconsin State, which partnered with battery manufacturer Johnson Controls.[89] The laboratory was created as part of the university's newly opened Wisconsin Energy Institute. Their goals include the evaluation of state-of-the-art and next generation electric vehicle batteries, including their use as grid supplements.[89]
The State of New York unveiled its New York Battery and Energy Storage Technology (NY-BEST) Test and Commercialization Center at Eastman Business Park in Rochester, New York, at a cost of $23 million for its almost 1,700 m2 laboratory. The center includes the Center for Future Energy Systems, a collaboration between Cornell University of Ithaca, New York and the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York. NY-BEST tests, validates and independently certifies diverse forms of energy storage intended for commercial use.[90]
United Kingdom[edit]
In the United Kingdom, some fourteen industry and government agencies allied with seven British universities in May 2014 to create the SUPERGEN Energy Storage Hub in order to assist in the coordination of energy storage technology research and development.[91][92]
See also[edit]


Energy portal
Renewable energy portal
Sustainable development portal




Distributed generation
Efficient energy use
Energy
Energy density
Energy Storage as a Service (ESaaS)
Grid energy storage
Hybrid renewable energy system
List of energy storage projects
Outline of energy
Power-to-X
Power transmission
Renewable energy
Search for the Super Battery (2017 PBS film)


References[edit]


^ Huggins, Robert A (September 1, 2010). Energy Storage. Springer. p. 60. ISBN 978-1-4419-1023-3. 
^ a b "Energy storage - Packing some power". The Economist. March 3, 2011. Retrieved March 11, 2012. 
^ Jacob, Thierry.Pumped storage in Switzerland - an outlook beyond 2000 Stucky. Accessed: February 13, 2012.
^ Levine, Jonah G. Pumped Hydroelectric Energy Storage and Spatial Diversity of Wind Resources as Methods of Improving Utilization of Renewable Energy Sources page 6, University of Colorado, December 2007. Accessed: February 12, 2012.
^ Yang, Chi-Jen. Pumped Hydroelectric Storage Duke University. Accessed: February 12, 2012.
^ Energy Storage Hawaiian Electric Company. Accessed: February 13, 2012.
^ Wild, Matthew, L. Wind Drives Growing Use of Batteries, New York Times, July 28, 2010, pp. B1.
^ Gies, Erica. Global Clean Energy: A Storage Solution Is in the Air, International Herald Tribune online website, October 1, 2012, and in print on October 2, 2012, in The International Herald Tribune. Retrieved from NYTimes.com website, March 19, 2013.
^ Diem, William. Experimental car is powered by air: French developer works on making it practical for real-world driving, Auto.com, March 18, 2004. Retrieved from Archive.org on March 19, 2013.
^ Slashdot: Car Powered by Compressed Air, Freep.com website, 2004.03.18
^ Torotrak Toroidal variable drive CVT, retrieved June 7, 2007.
^ a b Castelvecchi, Davide (May 19, 2007). "Spinning into control: High-tech reincarnations of an ancient way of storing energy". Science News. 171 (20): 312–313. doi:10.1002/scin.2007.5591712010. 
^ a b Storage Technology Report, ST6 Flywheel
^ "Next-gen Of Flywheel Energy Storage". Product Design & Development. Retrieved May 21, 2009. 
^ The Technology, EnergyCache.com website. Retrieved April 19, 2014.
^ a b c Massey, Nathanael and ClimateWire. Energy Storage Hits the Rails Out West: In California and Nevada, projects store electricity in the form of heavy rail cars pulled up a hill, ScientificAmerican.com website, March 25, 2014. Retrieved March 28, 2014.
^ "Electricity and Power Storage - Ares North America". 
^ "StratoSolar". StratoSolar. Archived from the original on February 18, 2011. 
^ a b "SinkFloatSolutions". 
^ "Electricity and Power Storage - Pumped Storage vs ARES Performance - Ares North America". 
^ "Low Cost Energy Storage". StratoSolar. 
^ Packing Some Power: Energy Technology: Better ways of storing energy are needed if electricity systems are to become cleaner and more efficient, The Economist, March 3, 2012
^ Downing, Louise. Ski Lifts Help Open $25 Billion Market for Storing Power, Bloomberg News online, September 6, 2012
^ Kernan, Aedan. Storing Energy on Rail Tracks, Leonardo-Energy.org website, October 30, 2013
^ Markham, Derek. Using Trains and Gravity for Energy Storage, BlackleMag.com website, April 3, 2013
^ Wong, B. (2013). Integrating solar & heat pumps..
^ Wong, B. (2011). Drake Landing Solar Community.
^ Canadian Solar Community Sets New World Record for Energy Efficiency and Innovation, Natural Resources Canada, October 5, 2012.
^ Hellström, G. (May 19, 2008), Large-Scale Applications of Ground-Source Heat Pumps in Sweden, IEA Heat Pump Annex 29 Workshop, Zurich.
^ Solar District Heating (SDH). 2012. Braedstrup Solar Park in Denmark Is Now a Reality! Newsletter. October 25, 2012. SDH is a European Union-wide program.
^ Aifantis, Katerina E.; Hackney, Stephen A.; Kumar, R. Vasant (March 30, 2010). High Energy Density Lithium Batteries: Materials, Engineering, Applications. John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 978-3-527-63002-8. 
^ a b B. E. Conway (1999). Electrochemical Supercapacitors: Scientific Fundamentals and Technological Applications. Berlin: Springer. ISBN 0306457369. Retrieved May 2, 2013. 
^ Marin S. Halper, James C. Ellenbogen (March 2006). Supercapacitors: A Brief Overview (PDF) (Technical report). MITRE Nanosystems Group. Retrieved January 20, 2014. 
^ Elzbieta Frackowiak, Francois Beguin, PERGAMON, Carbon 39 (2001) 937–950, Carbon materials for the electrochemical storage of energy in Capacitors
^ Yu.M. Volfkovich, A.A. Mikhailin, D.A. Bograchev, V.E. Sosenkin and V.S. Bagotsky, Studies of Supercapacitor Carbon Electrodes with High Pseudocapacitance, A. N. Frumkin Institute of Physical Chemistry and Electrochemistry, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia, Dr. Ujjal Kumar Sur (Ed.), ISBN 978-953-307-830-4, free PDF copy available here.
^ "Capacitor cells - ELTON". Elton-cap.com. Retrieved May 29, 2013. 
^ "UltraBattery". ecoult.com. Ecoult. Retrieved August 18, 2014. 
^ "Ultrabattery Test Results for Utility Cycling Applications" (PDF). ecoult.com. Ecoult. Retrieved August 18, 2014. 
^ "Further demonstration of the VRLA-type UltraBattery® under medium-HEV duty and development of the flooded-type UltraBattery® for micro-HEV applications". Journal of Power Sources. 195: 1241. 2010. doi:10.1016/j.jpowsour.2009.08.080. 
^ "UltraBattery Test Results for Utility Cycling Applications". International Seminar on Double Layer Capacitors And Hybrid Energy Storage Devices: 195. 2008. Retrieved August 18, 2014. 
^ "Development of UltraBattery®. Furukawa Review" (PDF). www.furukawa.co.jp. Furukawa. Retrieved August 18, 2014. 
^ Shaaban, Mahmoud. "Solar Hydrogen Fuel Cell Water Heater (Educational Stand)". Scribd. 
^ Oprisan, Morel. Introduction of Hydrogen Technologies to Ramea Island, CANMET Technology Innovation Centre, Natural Resources Canada, April 2007.
^ Zyga, Lisa (December 11, 2006). "Why A Hydrogen Economy Doesn't Make Sense". Physorg.com web site. Physorg.com. pp. 15–44. Retrieved November 17, 2007. 
^ Eberle, Ulrich and Rittmar von Helmolt. "Sustainable transportation based on electric vehicle concepts: a brief overview". Energy & Environmental Science, Royal Society of Chemistry, May 14, 2010, accessed August 2, 2011.
^ Benchmarking of selected storage options
^ "HyWeb - The LBST Information Portal on Hydrogen and Fuel Cells". 
^ Storing renewable energy: Is hydrogen a viable solution?
^ Alberto Varone, Michele Ferrari: Power to liquid and power to gas: An option for the German Energiewende. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 45, (2015), 207–218, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2015.01.049.
^ Clean Alternative Fuels: Fischer-Tropsch, Transportation and Air Quality, Transportation and Regional Programs Division, United States Environmental Protection Agency, March 2002.
^ White Paper: A Novel Method For Grid Energy Storage Using Aluminum Fuel, Alchemy Research, April 2012.
^ Cowan, Graham R.L. Boron: A Better Energy Carrier than Hydrogen?, June 12, 2007
^ Auner, Norbert. Silicon as an intermediary between renewable energy and hydrogen, Frankfurt, Germany: Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, Johann Wolfgang Goethe University Frankfurt, Leibniz-Informationszentrum Wirtschaft, May 5, 2004, No. 11.
^ Engineer-Poet. Ergosphere Blog, Zinc: Miracle metal?, June 29, 2005.
^ Miller, Charles. Illustrated Guide to the National Electrical Code, p. 445 (Cengage Learning 2011).
^ Talbot, David (December 21, 2009). "A Quantum Leap in Battery Design". Technology Review. MIT. Retrieved June 9, 2011. 
^ Hubler, Alfred W. (Jan–Feb 2009). "Digital Batteries". Complexity. Wiley Periodicals, Inc. 14 (3): 7–8. doi:10.1002/cplx.20275. 
^ a b Hassenzahl, W.V., "Applied Superconductivity: Superconductivity, An Enabling Technology For 21st Century Power Systems?", IEEE Transactions on Magnetics, pp. 1447–1453, Vol. 11, Iss. 1, March 2001.
^ Cheung K.Y.C; Cheung S.T.H.; Navin De Silvia; Juvonen; Singh; Woo J.J. Large-Scale Energy Storage Systems, Imperial College London: ISE2, 2002/2003.
^ a b Guilherme de Oliveira e Silva; Patrick Hendrick (September 15, 2016). "Lead-acid batteries coupled with photovoltaics for increased electricity self-sufficiency in households". Retrieved July 20, 2016. 
^ Debord, Matthew (May 1, 2015). "Elon Musk's big announcement: it's called 'Tesla Energy'". Business Insider. Retrieved June 11, 2015. 
^ Delacey, Lynda (October 29, 2015). "Enphase plug-and-play solar energy storage system to begin pilot program". www.gizmag.com. Retrieved December 20, 2015. 
^ Wright, matthew; Hearps, Patrick; et al. Australian Sustainable Energy: Zero Carbon Australia Stationary Energy Plan, Energy Research Institute, University of Melbourne, October 2010, p. 33. Retrieved from BeyondZeroEmissions.org website.
^ Innovation in Concentrating Thermal Solar Power (CSP), RenewableEnergyFocus.com website.
^ Ray Stern. "Solana: 10 Facts You Didn't Know About the Concentrated Solar Power Plant Near Gila Bend". Phoenix New Times. 
^ Edwin Cartlidge (November 18, 2011). "Saving for a rainy day". Science (Vol 334). pp. 922–924.  Missing or empty |url= (help)
^ a b c Wald, Matthew, L. Wind Drives Growing Use of Batteries, The New York Times, July 28, 2010, p. B1.
^ a b Erik Ingebretsen; Tor Haakon Glimsdal Johansen (July 16, 2013). "The Potential of Pumped Hydro Storage in Norway (abstract)" (PDF). Retrieved February 16, 2014. 
^ Norway: Energy storage for Europe (video report), Deutsche Welle, July 7, 2014. Retrieved July 21, 2014.
^ a b c d Wald, Matthew L. Ice or Molten Salt, Not Batteries, to Store Energy, The New York Times website, April 21, 2014, and in print on April 22, 2014, p. F7 of the New York edition. Retrieved May 29, 2014.
^ Schmid, Jürgen. Renewable Energies and Energy Efficiency: Bioenergy and renewable power methane in integrated 100% renewable energy system (thesis), Universität Kassel/Kassel University Press, September 23, 2009.
^ "Association négaWatt - Scénario négaWatt 2011". 
^ Wald, Matthew L. Taming Unruly Wind Power, The New York Times, November 4, 2011, and in print on November 5, 2011, p. B1 of the New York edition.
^ Wald, Matthew, L. Sudden Surplus Calls for Quick Thinking, The New York Times online website, July 7, 2010.
^ Thermal Energy Storage Myths, Calmac.com website.
^ Fire and Ice based storage, DistributedEnergy.com website, April 2009.
^ Air-Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute, Fundamentals of HVAC/R, Page 1263
^ Bird, John (2010). Electrical and Electronic Principles and Technology. Routledge. pp. 63–76. ISBN 9780080890562. Retrieved March 17, 2013. 
^ DOE Global Energy Storage Database, United States Department of Energy, Office of Electricity and Sandia National Labs.
^ Herrman, Ulf; Nava, Paul (13 February 2016). "Thermal Storage Concept for a 50 MW Trough Power Plant in Spain" (PDF). www.nrel.gov. NREL. Archived from the original (pdf) on 2 April 2016. Retrieved 13 February 2017. 
^ Locatelli, Giorgio; Palerma, Emanuele; Mancini, Mauro (April 1, 2015). "Assessing the economics of large Energy Storage Plants with an optimisation methodology". Energy. 83: 15–28. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2015.01.050. 
^ a b Locatelli, Giorgio; Invernizzi, Diletta Colette; Mancini, Mauro (June 1, 2016). "Investment and risk appraisal in energy storage systems: A real options approach". Energy. 104: 114–131. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2016.03.098. 
^ Rodica Loisel, Arnaud Mercier, Christoph Gatzen, Nick Elms, Hrvoje Petric, "Valuation framework for large scale electricity storage in a case with wind curtailment", Energy Policy 38(11): 7323–7337, 2010, doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2010.08.007.
^ Wald, Matthew. Green Blog: The Convoluted Economics of Storing Energy, The New York Times, January 3, 2012.
^ "Stanford scientists calculate the carbon footprint of grid-scale battery technologies". Stanford University. 
^ Galbraith, Kate. Filling the Gaps in the Flow of Renewable Energy, The New York Times, October 22, 2013.
^ Aschenbrenner, Norbert. Test Plant For Automated Battery Production, Physics.org website, May 6, 2014. Retrieved May 8, 2014.
^ Produktionsforschung | Prozessentwicklung und Produktionstechnik für große Lithium-Ionen-Zellen, Zentrum für Sonnenenergie- und Wasserstoff-Forschung Baden-Württemberg website, 2011. (German)
^ a b Content, Thomas. Johnson Controls, UW Open Energy Storage Systems Test Lab In Madison, Milwaukee, Wisconsin: Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, May 5, 2014.
^ Loudon, Bennett J. NY-BEST Opens $23M Energy Storage Center, Rochester, New York: Democrat and Chronicle, April 30, 2014.
^ SUPERGEN hub to set the direction of the UK’s energy storage, HVNPlus.co.uk website, May 6, 2014. Retrieved May 8, 2014.
^ New SUPERGEN Hub to set UK's energy storage course, ECNMag.com website, May 2, 2014.


Further reading[edit]
General

Barringer, Felicity. Green Blog: In California, a Grid Storage Mandate, The New York Times, October 1, 2010.
Baxter, Richard. Energy Storage: A Nontechnical Guide, September 10, 2005. ISBN 1-59370-027-X
Belli, Brita. ‘Battery University’ Aims to Train a Work Force for Next-Generation Energy Storage, The New York Times, April 8, 2013. Discusses a professional development program at San Jose State University.
Browne, Malcome W. New Hunt for Ideal Energy Storage System, The New York Times, January 6, 1988. Discusses superconducting magnetic energy storage.
Cardwell, Diane. Battery Seen as Way to Cut Heat-Related Power Losses, July 16, 2013 online and July 17, 2013 in print on July 17, 2013, on page B1 in the New York City edition of The New York Times, p. B1. Discusses Eos Energy Systems' Zinc–air batteries.
Cardwell, Diane. SolarCity to Use Batteries From Tesla for Energy Storage, December 4, 2013 on line, and December 5, 2013 in the New York City edition of The New York Times, p. B-2. Discusses SolarCity, DemandLogic and Tesla Motors.
Galbraith, Kate. In Presidio, a Grasp at the Holy Grail of Energy Storage, The New York Times, November 6, 2010.
Galbraith, Kate. Filling the Gaps in the Flow of Renewable Energy, The New York Times, October 22, 2013.
Gies, Erica. The Challenge of Storing Energy on a Large Scale, The New York Times, September 29, 2010.
Gies, Erica. Making the Consumer an Active Participant in the Grid, The New York Times, November 29, 2010. Discusses distributed generation and the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
Gies, Erica. I.H.T. Special Report: Global Clean Energy: A Storage Solution Is in the Air, The International Herald Tribune, October 1, 2012. Retrieved from NYTimes.com website. Discusses SustainX, LightSail Energy, and both adiabatic and isothermal compressed air energy storage.
Huggins, Robert. Energy storage. Springer Science & Business Media, 2010.
Kumagai, Jean. How Much Energy Storage Do You Need to Back Up the London Array?, IEEE Spectrum, July 15, 2014.
LaMonica, Martin. A Big Bet on How to Store Energy, Cheaply, June 24, 2014, Smithsonian magazine website. Retrieved from Smithsonian.com July 20, 2014. Discusses CAES, SustainX, LightSail Energy, and others.
Malewitz, Jim. Project Tests New Storage for Energy, The New York Times website, June 21, 2014, and in print on June 22, 2014, on p. A27A of the National edition.
Middlesboro Daily News. The Case For A Fifth Wheel, Middlesboro, Kentucky: Middlesboro Daily News, January 15, 1974, p. 4. Discusses research into flywheel powered autos.
Ricketts, Camille. DOE Charges Up Flywheels, Finalizes $43M Loan to Beacon Power, VentureBeat, The New York Times, August 10, 2010. Discusses Beacon Power and flywheel energy storage.
Sorkin, Andrew Ross. Storage: Clean Energy’s Killer App, DealBook, The New York Times, September 30, 2010.
Sorkin, Andrew Ross. Despite Setbacks, Investor Is Bullish on Clean Technology, DealBook, The New York Times, November 29, 2012. Discusses LightSail and Khosla Ventures.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: Harnessing the Sun to Store the Wind, The New York Times, December 28, 2009. Discusses CAES and Southwest Solar Technology.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: Storing Energy as Ice?, The New York Times, January 27, 2010. Discusses Thermal energy storage.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: ARPA-E Is Poised to Put Products on the Grid, The New York Times, April 14, 2011. Discusses: Advanced Research Projects Agency (ARPA-E), General Compression, CAES.
Wald, Matthew L. Can Batteries Replace Power Generators?, The New York Times, May 18, 2011. Discusses: AES Energy Storage, Long Island Power Authority.
Wald, Matthew L. Batteries at a Wind Farm Help Control Output, The New York Times, October 28, 2011. Discusses: AES Corporation, energy storage at wind farms.
Wald, Matthew L. Storehouses for Solar Energy Can Step In When the Sun Goes Down, The New York Times, January 2, 2012. Discusses molten salt thermal storage, SolarReserve, Brightsource, solar power towers.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: Surplus Renewable Energy: An Update, The New York Times, February 8, 2012.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: Is That Onions You Smell? Or Battery Juice?, The New York Times, May 9, 2012. Discusses vanadium redox battery technology.
Wald, Matthew L. Green Blog: Cutting the Electric Bill with a Giant Battery, The New York Times, June 27, 2012. Discusses Saft Groupe S.A.
Wald, Matthew L. Seeking to Start a Silicon Valley for Battery Science, The New York Times, November 30, 2012.
Wald, Matthew L. Arizona Utility Tries Storing Solar Energy for Use in the Dark, The New York Times, October 18, 2013, p. B1 (New York edition); also published online at NYTimes.com on October 17, 2013. Retrieved October 18, 2013. Discusses BrightSource Energy, Electric Power Research Institute, Ivanpah Solar Power Facility project, and the Solana Generating Station project.
Wald, Matthew L. Catching Rays in California, and Storing Them, The New York Times, December 23, 2013 online, and in print on December 24, 2013, p. B3 of the New York edition. Discusses the California Public Utilities Commission's role in mandating the use of energy storage within that state.
Wald, Matthew L. From Harvard, a Cheaper Storage Battery, The New York Times, January 8, 2014. Discusses research into flow-batteries utilizing carbon-based molecules called quinones.
Witkin, Jim. Building Better Batteries for Electric Cars, The New York Times, March 31, 2011, p. F4. Published online March 30, 2011. Discusses batteries and lithium ion battery.
Witkin, Jim. Green Blog: A Second Life for the Electric Car Battery, The New York Times, April 27, 2011. Describes: ABB; Community Energy Storage for the use of electric vehicle batteries for grid energy storage.

Journals and papers

Chen, Haisheng; Thang Ngoc Cong; Wei Yang; Chunqing Tan; Yongliang Li; Yulong Ding. Progress in electrical energy storage system: A critical review, Progress in Natural Science, accepted July 2, 2008, published in Vol. 19, 2009, pp. 291–312, doi: 10.1016/j.pnsc.2008.07.014. Sourced from the National Natural Science Foundation of China and the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Published by Elsevier and Science in China Press. Synopsis: a review of electrical energy storage technologies for stationary applications. Retrieved from ac.els-cdn.com on May 13, 2014. (PDF)
Corum, Lyn. The New Core Technology: Energy storage is part of the smart grid evolution, The Journal of Energy Efficiency and Reliability, December 31, 2009. Discusses: Anaheim Public Utilities Department, lithium ion energy storage, iCel Systems, Beacon Power, Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), ICEL, Self Generation Incentive Program, ICE Energy, vanadium redox flow, lithium Ion, regenerative fuel cell, ZBB, VRB, lead acid, CAES, and Thermal Energy Storage. (PDF)
G. de Oliveira e Silva; P. Hendrick. Lead-acid batteries coupled with photovoltaics for increased electricity self-sufficiency in households, Applied Energy, 178 (2016) 856-867. Retrieved on July 20, 2016.
Whittingham, M. Stanley. History, Evolution, and Future Status of Energy Storage, Proceedings of the IEEE, manuscript accepted February 20, 2012, date of publication April 16, 2012; date of current version May 10, 2012, published in Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 100, May 13, 2012, 0018-9219, pp. 1518–1534, doi: 10.1109/JPROC.2012.219017. Retrieved from ieeexplore.ieee.org May 13, 2014. Synopsis: A discussion of the important aspects of energy storage including emerging battery technologies and the importance of storage systems in key application areas, including electronic devices, transportation, and the utility grid. (PDF)

Book

GA Mansoori, N Enayati, LB Agyarko (2016), Energy: Sources, Utilization, Legislation, Sustainability, Illinois as Model State, World Sci. Pub. Co., ISBN 978-981-4704-00-7
Díaz-González, Franscisco (2016). Energy storage in power systems. United Kingdom: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9781118971321. 

External links[edit]



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Energy storage.





Wikiversity has learning resources about Energy storage



U.S. Dept of Energy - Energy Storage Systems Government research center on energy storage technology.
U.S. Dept of Energy - International Energy Storage Database The DOE International Energy Storage Database provides free, up-to-date information on grid-connected energy storage projects and relevant state and federal policies.
US Energy Storage Association Good comparison of technologies.
List of grid scale energy storage systems Currently being used today.
IEEE Special Issue on Massive Energy Storage
IEA-ECES - International Energy Agency - Energy Conservation through Energy Conservation programme.
Energy Information Administration Glossary







v
t
e


Electricity delivery






Concepts



Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability








Sources





Nonrenewable




Coal
Fossil fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale









Renewable




Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine

Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave


Solar
Wind











Generation



AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant









Transmission
and distribution




Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole









Protective
devices




Arc-fault circuit interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker









Economics
and policies




Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread











Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


Emerging technologies







Technology






Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural robot
Closed ecological systems
Cultured meat
Genetically modified food
Precision agriculture
Vertical farming








Architecture



Arcology
Building printing

Contour crafting
D-Shape


Domed city








Biomedical



Artificial uterus
Ampakine
Brain transplant
Cryonics

Cryoprotectant
Cryopreservation
Vitrification
Suspended animation


De-extinction
Genetic engineering

Gene therapy


Head transplant
Isolated brain
Life extension

Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence


Nanomedicine
Nanosensors
Personalized medicine
Regenerative medicine

Stem-cell therapy
Tissue engineering


Robot-assisted surgery
Synthetic biology

Synthetic genomics


Virotherapy

Oncolytic virus


Tricorder
Whole genome sequencing








Displays




Next generation



FED
FLCD
iMoD
Laser
LPD
OLED
OLET
QD-LED
SED
TPD
TDEL
TMOS








Screenless



Bionic contact lens
Head-mounted display
Head-up display
Optical head-mounted display
Virtual retinal display








Other



Autostereoscopy
Flexible display
Holographic display

Computer-generated holography


Multi-primary color display
Ultra HD
Volumetric display











Electronics



Electronic nose
E-textiles
Flexible electronics
Molecular electronics
Nanoelectromechanical systems
Memristor
Spintronics
Thermal copper pillar bump








Energy




Production



Airborne wind turbine
Artificial photosynthesis
Biofuels
Carbon-neutral fuel
Concentrated solar power
Fusion power
Home fuel cell
Hydrogen economy
Methanol economy
Molten salt reactor
Nantenna
Photovoltaic pavement
Space-based solar power
Vortex engine








Storage



Beltway battery
Compressed air energy storage
Flywheel energy storage
Grid energy storage
Lithium–air battery
Molten salt battery
Nanowire battery
Research in lithium-ion batteries
Silicon–air battery
Thermal energy storage
Ultracapacitor








Other



Smart grid
Wireless power












IT and
communications




Ambient intelligence

Internet of Things


Artificial intelligence

Applications of artificial intelligence
Progress in artificial intelligence
Machine translation
Machine vision
Semantic Web
Speech recognition


Atomtronics
Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor
Cybermethodology
Fourth-generation optical discs

3D optical data storage
Holographic data storage


GPGPU
Memory

CBRAM
FRAM
Millipede
MRAM
NRAM
PRAM
Racetrack memory
RRAM
SONOS


Optical computing
Quantum computing
Quantum cryptography
RFID

Chipless RFID


Software-defined radio
Three-dimensional integrated circuit








Manufacturing



3D printing
Claytronics
Molecular assembler
Utility fog








Materials science



Aerogel
Amorphous metal
Artificial muscle
Conductive polymer
Femtotechnology
Fullerene
Graphene
High-temperature superconductivity
High-temperature superfluidity
Linear acetylenic carbon
Metamaterials

Metamaterial cloaking


Metal foam
Multi-function structures
Nanotechnology

Carbon nanotubes
Molecular nanotechnology
Nanomaterials


Picotechnology
Programmable matter
Quantum dots
Silicene
Superalloy
Synthetic diamond








Military



Antimatter weapon
Caseless ammunition
Directed-energy weapon

Laser
Maser
Particle-beam weapon
Sonic weapon
Coilgun
Railgun


Plasma weapon
Pure fusion weapon
Stealth technology
Vortex ring gun








Neuroscience



Artificial brain

Blue Brain Project


Brain–computer interface
Electroencephalography
Mind uploading

Brain-reading
Neuroinformatics


Neuroprosthetics

Bionic eye
Brain implant
Exocortex
Retinal implant










Robotics



Domotics
Nanorobotics
Powered exoskeleton
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Swarm robotics
Uncrewed vehicle








Space science




Launch



Fusion rocket
Non-rocket spacelaunch

Mass driver
Orbital ring
Space elevator
Space fountain
Space tether


Reusable launch system








Propulsion



Beam-powered propulsion
Ion thruster
Laser propulsion
Plasma propulsion engine

Helicon thruster
VASIMR


Project Orion
Nuclear pulse propulsion
Solar sail








Other



Interstellar travel
Propellant depot











Transport




Aerial



Adaptive compliant wing
Aeroscraft
Backpack helicopter
Delivery drone
Flying car
High-altitude platform
Jet pack
Pulse detonation engine
Scramjet
Spaceplane

Skylon


Supersonic transport








Land



Airless tire

Tweel


Alternative fuel vehicle

Hydrogen vehicle


Driverless car
Ground effect train
Maglev train
Personal rapid transit
Vactrain

ET3 Global Alliance
Hyperloop


Vehicular communication systems








Pipeline



Pneumatic transport

Automated vacuum collection
Foodtubes













Other



Anti-gravity
Cloak of invisibility
Digital scent technology
Force field

Plasma window


Immersive virtual reality

VirtuSphere


Magnetic refrigeration
Phased-array optics
Quantum technology

Quantum teleportation













Topics



Collingridge dilemma
Differential technological development
Ephemeralization
Exploratory engineering
Fictional technology
Proactionary principle
Technological change

Technological unemployment


Technological convergence
Technological evolution
Technological paradigm
Technology forecasting

Accelerating change
Moore's law
Technological singularity
Technology scouting


Technology readiness level
Technology roadmap
Transhumanism











 Category
 List












v
t
e


Lists about renewable energy






Wind farm lists



List of onshore wind farms
List of onshore wind farms in the United Kingdom
List of offshore wind farms in the United Kingdom
List of offshore wind farms in the United States
Lists of offshore wind farms by country
Lists of offshore wind farms by water area
Lists of wind farms by country
List of wind farms in Australia
List of wind farms in Canada
List of wind farms in Iran
List of wind farms in New Zealand
List of wind farms in Romania
List of wind farms in Sweden
List of wind farms in the United States
List of wind turbine manufacturers








Solar power lists



Index of solar energy articles
List of concentrating solar thermal power companies
List of photovoltaics companies
List of photovoltaic power stations
List of pioneering solar buildings
List of rooftop photovoltaic installations
List of solar car teams
List of solar powered products
List of solar thermal power stations
People associated with solar power








Other lists



List of books about renewable energy
List of countries by electricity production from renewable sources
List of geothermal power stations
Lists of hydroelectric power stations
List of largest hydroelectric power stations
List of people associated with renewable energy
List of renewable energy companies by stock exchange
List of renewable energy organizations
List of renewable energy topics by country
List of U.S. states by electricity production from renewable sources












v
t
e


Renewable energy by country






Africa



Ethiopia
Kenya
Morocco
Seychelles








Asia



Afghanistan
Armenia
Bangladesh
Bhutan
China
India
Kazakhstan
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Taiwan
Thailand








Europe



European Union (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom)
Albania
Iceland
Norway
Russia








North America



Canada
Costa Rica
Honduras
Mexico
United States








Oceania



Australia
New Zealand
Tuvalu








South America



Argentina
Brazil
Chile
Colombia











Category
Portals:
 Energy
 Renewable energy
 Sustainable development









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Energy_storage&oldid=765173392"					
Categories: Energy storageRenewable energyElectric power systems componentsHidden categories: Pages using web citations with no URLArticles with German-language external linksPages using ISBN magic linksUse mdy dates from June 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2013Articles with unsourced statements from October 2009Articles with unsourced statements from August 2016Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoMagyarമലയാളം日本語PolskiPortuguêsSlovenčinaSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeاردو中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 12 February 2017, at 23:54.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"1.088","walltime":"1.269","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5088,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":292669,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5384,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":5,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  888.144      1 -total"," 46.00%  408.571      1 Template:Reflist"," 16.59%  147.382     14 Template:Navbox"," 11.50%  102.096      3 Template:Citation_needed"," 10.85%   96.324      3 Template:Fix"," 10.02%   89.016     18 Template:Cite_web","  7.86%   69.843      5 Template:Cite_book","  5.33%   47.334      9 Template:Cite_journal","  4.54%   40.329      3 Template:Delink","  4.28%   37.993      3 Template:Convert"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.364","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":9114194,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1162","timestamp":"20170213082528","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":68,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
