 






Engineering

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Engineering (disambiguation).




The steam engine, a major driver in the Industrial Revolution, underscores the importance of engineering in modern history. This beam engine is on display in the Technical University of Madrid.


Engineering is the application of mathematics and scientific, economic, social, and practical knowledge in order to invent, innovate, design, build, maintain, research, and improve structures, machines, tools, systems, components, materials, processes, solutions, and organizations.
The discipline of engineering is extremely broad and encompasses a range of more specialized fields of engineering, each with a more specific emphasis on particular areas of applied science, technology and types of application.
The term Engineering is derived from the Latin ingenium, meaning "cleverness" and ingeniare, meaning "to contrive, devise".[1]



Contents


1 Definition
2 History

2.1 Ancient era
2.2 Renaissance era
2.3 Modern era


3 Main branches of engineering
4 Practice
5 Methodology

5.1 Problem solving
5.2 Computer use


6 Social context
7 Relationships with other disciplines

7.1 Science
7.2 Medicine and biology
7.3 Art
7.4 Business Engineering and Engineering Management
7.5 Other fields


8 See also
9 References
10 Further reading
11 External links



Definition[edit]
The American Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD, the predecessor of ABET)[2] has defined "engineering" as:

The creative application of scientific principles to design or develop structures, machines, apparatus, or manufacturing processes, or works utilizing them singly or in combination; or to construct or operate the same with full cognizance of their design; or to forecast their behavior under specific operating conditions; all as respects an intended function, economics of operation or safety to life and property.[3][4]

History[edit]
Main article: History of engineering




Relief map of the Citadel of Lille, designed in 1668 by Vauban, the foremost military engineer of his age.


Engineering has existed since ancient times as humans devised fundamental inventions such as the wedge, lever, wheel and pulley. Each of these inventions is essentially consistent with the modern definition of engineering.
The term engineering is derived from the word engineer, which itself dates back to 1390 when an engine'er (literally, one who operates an engine) originally referred to "a constructor of military engines."[5] In this context, now obsolete, an "engine" referred to a military machine, i.e., a mechanical contraption used in war (for example, a catapult). Notable examples of the obsolete usage which have survived to the present day are military engineering corps, e.g., the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
The word "engine" itself is of even older origin, ultimately deriving from the Latin ingenium (c. 1250), meaning "innate quality, especially mental power, hence a clever invention."[6]
Later, as the design of civilian structures such as bridges and buildings matured as a technical discipline, the term civil engineering[4] entered the lexicon as a way to distinguish between those specializing in the construction of such non-military projects and those involved in the older discipline of military engineering.
Ancient era[edit]




The Ancient Romans built aqueducts to bring a steady supply of clean fresh water to cities and towns in the empire.


The Pharos of Alexandria, the pyramids in Egypt, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Acropolis and the Parthenon in Greece, the Roman aqueducts, Via Appia and the Colosseum, Teotihuacán and the cities and pyramids of the Mayan, Inca and Aztec Empires, the Great Wall of China, the Brihadeeswarar Temple of Thanjavur and Indian Temples, among many others, stand as a testament to the ingenuity and skill of the ancient civil and military engineers.
The earliest civil engineer known by name is Imhotep.[4] As one of the officials of the Pharaoh, Djosèr, he probably designed and supervised the construction of the Pyramid of Djoser (the Step Pyramid) at Saqqara in Egypt around 2630–2611 BC.[7]
Ancient Greece developed machines in both civilian and military domains. The Antikythera mechanism, the first known mechanical computer,[8][9] and the mechanical inventions of Archimedes are examples of early mechanical engineering. Some of Archimedes' inventions as well as the Antikythera mechanism required sophisticated knowledge of differential gearing or epicyclic gearing, two key principles in machine theory that helped design the gear trains of the Industrial Revolution, and are still widely used today in diverse fields such as robotics and automotive engineering.[10]
Chinese, Greek, Roman and Hungarian armies employed complex military machines and inventions such as artillery which was developed by the Greeks around the 4th century B.C.,[11] the trireme, the ballista and the catapult. In the Middle Ages, the trebuchet was developed.
Renaissance era[edit]
The first steam engine was built in 1698 by Thomas Savery.[12] The development of this device gave rise to the Industrial Revolution in the coming decades, allowing for the beginnings of mass production.
With the rise of engineering as a profession in the 18th century, the term became more narrowly applied to fields in which mathematics and science were applied to these ends. Similarly, in addition to military and civil engineering, the fields then known as the mechanic arts became incorporated into engineering.
Modern era[edit]




The International Space Station represents a modern engineering challenge from many disciplines.


The inventions of Thomas Newcomen and the Scottish engineer James Watt gave rise to modern mechanical engineering. The development of specialized machines and machine tools during the industrial revolution led to the rapid growth of mechanical engineering both in its birthplace Britain and abroad.[4]




Structural engineers investigating NASA's Mars-bound spacecraft, the Phoenix Mars Lander


John Smeaton was the first self-proclaimed civil engineer and is often regarded as the "father" of civil engineering. He was an English civil engineer responsible for the design of bridges, canals, harbours, and lighthouses. He was also a capable mechanical engineer and an eminent physicist. Smeaton designed the third Eddystone Lighthouse (1755–59) where he pioneered the use of 'hydraulic lime' (a form of mortar which will set under water) and developed a technique involving dovetailed blocks of granite in the building of the lighthouse. His lighthouse remained in use until 1877 and was dismantled and partially rebuilt at Plymouth Hoe where it is known as Smeaton's Tower. He is important in the history, rediscovery of, and development of modern cement, because he identified the compositional requirements needed to obtain "hydraulicity" in lime; work which led ultimately to the invention of Portland cement.
The United States census of 1850 listed the occupation of "engineer" for the first time with a count of 2,000.[13] There were fewer than 50 engineering graduates in the U.S. before 1865. In 1870 there were a dozen U.S. mechanical engineering graduates, with that number increasing to 43 per year in 1875. In 1890 there were 6,000 engineers in civil, mining, mechanical and electrical.[14]
There was no chair of applied mechanism and applied mechanics established at Cambridge until 1875, and no chair of engineering at Oxford until 1907. Germany established technical universities earlier.[15]
The foundations of electrical engineering in the 1800s included the experiments of Alessandro Volta, Michael Faraday, Georg Ohm and others and the invention of the electric telegraph in 1816 and the electric motor in 1872. The theoretical work of James Maxwell (see: Maxwell's equations) and Heinrich Hertz in the late 19th century gave rise to the field of electronics. The later inventions of the vacuum tube and the transistor further accelerated the development of electronics to such an extent that electrical and electronics engineers currently outnumber their colleagues of any other engineering specialty.[4] Chemical engineering developed in the late nineteenth century.[4] Industrial scale manufacturing demanded new materials and new processes and by 1880 the need for large scale production of chemicals was such that a new industry was created, dedicated to the development and large scale manufacturing of chemicals in new industrial plants.[4] The role of the chemical engineer was the design of these chemical plants and processes.[4]




The Falkirk Wheel in Scotland


Aeronautical engineering deals with aircraft design process design while aerospace engineering is a more modern term that expands the reach of the discipline by including spacecraft design. Its origins can be traced back to the aviation pioneers around the start of the 20th century although the work of Sir George Cayley has recently been dated as being from the last decade of the 18th century. Early knowledge of aeronautical engineering was largely empirical with some concepts and skills imported from other branches of engineering.[16]
The first PhD in engineering (technically, applied science and engineering) awarded in the United States went to Josiah Willard Gibbs at Yale University in 1863; it was also the second PhD awarded in science in the U.S.[17]
Only a decade after the successful flights by the Wright brothers, there was extensive development of aeronautical engineering through development of military aircraft that were used in World War I. Meanwhile, research to provide fundamental background science continued by combining theoretical physics with experiments.
In 1990, with the rise of computer technology, the first search engine was built by computer engineer Alan Emtage.
Main branches of engineering[edit]





This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


Main article: List of engineering branches
For a topical guide to this subject, see Outline of engineering § Branches of engineering.




The design of a modern auditorium involves many branches of engineering, including acoustics, architecture, and civil engineering.






Hoover Dam


Engineering is a broad discipline which is often broken down into several sub-disciplines. These disciplines concern themselves with differing areas of engineering work. Although initially an engineer will usually be trained in a specific discipline, throughout an engineer's career the engineer may become multi-disciplined, having worked in several of the outlined areas. Engineering is often characterized as having four main branches:[18][19][20]

Chemical engineering – The application of physics, chemistry, biology, and engineering principles in order to carry out chemical processes on a commercial scale, such as petroleum refining, microfabrication, fermentation, and biomolecule production.
Civil engineering – The design and construction of public and private works, such as infrastructure (airports, roads, railways, water supply, and treatment etc.), bridges, dams, and buildings.
Electrical engineering – The design, study, and manufacture of various electrical and electronic systems, such as electrical circuits, generators, motors, electromagnetic/electromechanical devices, electronic devices, electronic circuits, optical fibers, optoelectronic devices, computer systems, telecommunications, instrumentation, controls, and electronics.
Mechanical engineering – The design and manufacture of physical or mechanical systems, such as power and energy systems, aerospace/aircraft products, weapon systems, transportation products, engines, compressors, powertrains, kinematic chains, vacuum technology, vibration isolation equipment, manufacturing, and mechatronics.

Beyond these "Big Four", a number of other branches are recognized. Historically, naval engineering and mining engineering were major branches. Other engineering fields sometimes included as major branches[citation needed] are manufacturing engineering, acoustical engineering, corrosion engineering, instrumentation and control, aerospace, automotive, computer, electronic, petroleum, environmental, systems, audio, software, architectural, agricultural, biosystems, biomedical,[21] geological, textile, industrial, materials,[22] and nuclear engineering.[23] These and other branches of engineering are represented in the 36 licensed member institutions of the UK Engineering Council.
New specialties sometimes combine with the traditional fields and form new branches – for example, Earth systems engineering and management involves a wide range of subject areas including anthropology, engineering studies, environmental science, ethics and philosophy of engineering. A new or emerging area of application will commonly be defined temporarily as a permutation or subset of existing disciplines; there is often gray area as to when a given sub-field warrants classification as a new "branch." One key indicator of such emergence is when major universities start establishing departments and programs in the new field.
For each of these fields, there exists considerable overlap, especially in the areas of the application of fundamental sciences to their disciplines such as physics, chemistry, and mathematics. As a result, there are many different types of engineering degrees available. In the past, engineering could be divided into four major branches: mechanical, chemical, civil and electrical, with sub-branches of each discipline. Today, however, the number of engineering degrees available have increased dramatically.
Practice[edit]
One who practices engineering is called an engineer, and those licensed to do so may have more formal designations such as Professional Engineer, Chartered Engineer, Incorporated Engineer, Ingenieur, European Engineer, or Designated Engineering Representative. In the UK many trades are called "Engineer" including gas, telephone, photocopy, maintenance, plumber-heating, drainage, sanitary, auto mechanic, TV, Refrigerator, electrician, washing machine, TV antenna installer (satellite) and many others.
Methodology[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)






Design of a turbine requires collaboration of engineers from many fields, as the system involves mechanical, electro-magnetic and chemical processes. The blades, rotor and stator as well as the steam cycle all need to be carefully designed and optimized.


Engineers apply mathematics and sciences such as physics to find novel solutions to problems or to improve existing solutions. More than ever, engineers are now required to have a proficient knowledge of relevant sciences for their design projects. As a result, many engineers continue to learn new material throughout their career.
If multiple solutions exist, engineers weigh each design choice based on their merit and choose the solution that best matches the requirements. The crucial and unique task of the engineer is to identify, understand, and interpret the constraints on a design in order to yield a successful result. It is generally insufficient to build a technically successful product, rather, it must also meet further requirements.
Constraints may include available resources, physical, imaginative or technical limitations, flexibility for future modifications and additions, and other factors, such as requirements for cost, safety, marketability, productivity, and serviceability. By understanding the constraints, engineers derive specifications for the limits within which a viable object or system may be produced and operated.
A general methodology and epistemology of engineering can be inferred from the historical case studies and comments provided by Walter Vincenti.[24] Though Vincenti's case studies are from the domain of aeronautical engineering, his conclusions can be transferred into many other branches of engineering, too.
According to Billy Vaughn Koen, the "engineering method is the use of heuristics to cause the best change in a poorly understood situation within the available resources." Koen argues that the definition of what makes one an engineer should not be based on what he produces, but rather how he goes about it.[25]
Problem solving[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)






A drawing for a booster engine for steam locomotives. Engineering is applied to design, with emphasis on function and the utilization of mathematics and science.


Engineers use their knowledge of science, mathematics, logic, economics, and appropriate experience or tacit knowledge to find suitable solutions to a problem. Creating an appropriate mathematical model of a problem allows them to analyze it (sometimes definitively), and to test potential solutions.
Usually, multiple reasonable solutions exist, so engineers must evaluate the different design choices on their merits and choose the solution that best meets their requirements. Genrich Altshuller, after gathering statistics on a large number of patents, suggested that compromises are at the heart of "low-level" engineering designs, while at a higher level the best design is one which eliminates the core contradiction causing the problem.
Engineers typically attempt to predict how well their designs will perform to their specifications prior to full-scale production. They use, among other things: prototypes, scale models, simulations, destructive tests, nondestructive tests, and stress tests. Testing ensures that products will perform as expected.
Engineers take on the responsibility of producing designs that will perform as well as expected and will not cause unintended harm to the public at large. Engineers typically include a factor of safety in their designs to reduce the risk of unexpected failure. However, the greater the safety factor, the less efficient the design may be.
The study of failed products is known as forensic engineering and can help the product designer in evaluating his or her design in the light of real conditions. The discipline is of greatest value after disasters, such as bridge collapses, when careful analysis is needed to establish the cause or causes of the failure.
Computer use[edit]




A computer simulation of high velocity air flow around a Space Shuttle orbiter during re-entry. Solutions to the flow require modelling of the combined effects of fluid flow and the heat equations.


As with all modern scientific and technological endeavors, computers and software play an increasingly important role. As well as the typical business application software there are a number of computer aided applications (computer-aided technologies) specifically for engineering. Computers can be used to generate models of fundamental physical processes, which can be solved using numerical methods.
One of the most widely used design tools in the profession is computer-aided design (CAD) software like CATIA, Autodesk Inventor, DSS SolidWorks or Pro Engineer which enables engineers to create 3D models, 2D drawings, and schematics of their designs. CAD together with digital mockup (DMU) and CAE software such as finite element method analysis or analytic element method allows engineers to create models of designs that can be analyzed without having to make expensive and time-consuming physical prototypes.
These allow products and components to be checked for flaws; assess fit and assembly; study ergonomics; and to analyze static and dynamic characteristics of systems such as stresses, temperatures, electromagnetic emissions, electrical currents and voltages, digital logic levels, fluid flows, and kinematics. Access and distribution of all this information is generally organized with the use of product data management software.[26]
There are also many tools to support specific engineering tasks such as computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) software to generate CNC machining instructions; manufacturing process management software for production engineering; EDA for printed circuit board (PCB) and circuit schematics for electronic engineers; MRO applications for maintenance management; and AEC software for civil engineering.
In recent years the use of computer software to aid the development of goods has collectively come to be known as product lifecycle management (PLM).[27]
Social context[edit]





This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (July 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)






Robotic Kismet can produce a range of facial expressions.


The engineering profession engages in a wide range of activities, from large collaboration at the societal level, and also smaller individual projects. Almost all engineering projects are obligated to some sort of financing agency: a company, a set of investors, or a government. The few types of engineering that are minimally constrained by such issues are pro bono engineering and open-design engineering.
By its very nature engineering has interconnections with society, culture and human behavior. Every product or construction used by modern society is influenced by engineering. The results of engineering activity influence changes to the environment, society and economies, and its application brings with it a responsibility and public safety. Many engineering societies have established codes of practice and codes of ethics to guide members and inform the public at large.
Engineering projects can be subject to controversy. Examples from different engineering disciplines include the development of nuclear weapons, the Three Gorges Dam, the design and use of sport utility vehicles and the extraction of oil. In response, some western engineering companies have enacted serious corporate and social responsibility policies.
Engineering is a key driver of innovation and human development.[28] Sub-Saharan Africa, in particular, has a very small engineering capacity which results in many African nations being unable to develop crucial infrastructure without outside aid.[citation needed] The attainment of many of the Millennium Development Goals requires the achievement of sufficient engineering capacity to develop infrastructure and sustainable technological development.[29]




Radar, GPS, lidar, ... are all combined to provide proper navigation and obstacle avoidance (vehicle developed for 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge)


All overseas development and relief NGOs make considerable use of engineers to apply solutions in disaster and development scenarios. A number of charitable organizations aim to use engineering directly for the good of mankind:

Engineers Without Borders
Engineers Against Poverty
Registered Engineers for Disaster Relief
Engineers for a Sustainable World
Engineering for Change
Engineering Ministries International[30]

Engineering companies in many established economies are facing significant challenges with regard to the number of professional engineers being trained, compared with the number retiring. This problem is very prominent in the UK where engineering has a poor image and low status.[31] There are many negative economic and political issues that this can cause, as well as ethical issues[32] It is widely agreed that the engineering profession faces an "image crisis",[33] rather than it being fundamentally an unattractive career. Much work is needed to avoid huge problems in the UK and other western economies.
Relationships with other disciplines[edit]
Science[edit]

Scientists study the world as it is; engineers create the world that has never been.
— Theodore von Kármán[34][35][36]





Engineers, scientists and technicians at work on target positioner inside National Ignition Facility (NIF) target chamber


There exists an overlap between the sciences and engineering practice; in engineering, one applies science. Both areas of endeavor rely on accurate observation of materials and phenomena. Both use mathematics and classification criteria to analyze and communicate observations.[citation needed]
Scientists may also have to complete engineering tasks, such as designing experimental apparatus or building prototypes. Conversely, in the process of developing technology engineers sometimes find themselves exploring new phenomena, thus becoming, for the moment, scientists or more precisely "engineering scientists".[citation needed]
In the book What Engineers Know and How They Know It,[37] Walter Vincenti asserts that engineering research has a character different from that of scientific research. First, it often deals with areas in which the basic physics or chemistry are well understood, but the problems themselves are too complex to solve in an exact manner.
There is a "real and important" difference between engineering and physics as similar to any science field has to do with technology.[38][39] Physics is an exploratory science that seeks knowledge of principles while Engineering uses knowledge for practical applications of principles. The former equates an understanding into a mathematical principle while the latter measures variables involved and creates technology.[40][41][42] For technology, physics is an auxiliary and in a way technology is considered as applied physics.[43] Though Physics and Engineering are interrelated it doesn't mean a Physicist is sufficient where an Engineer is required. For this mobility, a physicist to work as an engineer requires additional and relevant specialized training.[44] Physicists and engineers engage in different lines of work.[45] But PhD physicists who specialize in sectors of technology and applied science are titled as Technology officer, R&D Engineers and System Engineers.[46] Though as an engineer, role of a physicist is limited.[47] Physicists in their field, work in theoretical analysis and experimental research.[48]




Christopher Cassidy of NASA works on the Capillary Flow Experiment aboard the International Space Station.


An example of this is the use of numerical approximations to the Navier–Stokes equations to describe aerodynamic flow over an aircraft, or the use of Miner's rule to calculate fatigue damage. Second, engineering research employs many semi-empirical methods that are foreign to pure scientific research, one example being the method of parameter variation.[citation needed]
As stated by Fung et al. in the revision to the classic engineering text Foundations of Solid Mechanics:

Engineering is quite different from science. Scientists try to understand nature. Engineers try to make things that do not exist in nature. Engineers stress innovation and invention. To embody an invention the engineer must put his idea in concrete terms, and design something that people can use. That something can be a complex system, device, a gadget, a material, a method, a computing program, an innovative experiment, a new solution to a problem, or an improvement on what already exists. Since a design has to be realistic and functional, it must have its geometry, dimensions, and characteristics data defined. In the past engineers working on new designs found that they did not have all the required information to make design decisions. Most often, they were limited by insufficient scientific knowledge. Thus they studied mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology and mechanics. Often they had to add to the sciences relevant to their profession. Thus engineering sciences were born.[49]

Although engineering solutions make use of scientific principles, engineers must also take into account safety, efficiency, economy, reliability, and constructability or ease of fabrication as well as the environment, ethical and legal considerations such as patent infringement or liability in the case of failure of the solution.[citation needed]
Medicine and biology[edit]




Leonardo da Vinci, seen here in a self-portrait, has been described as the epitome of the artist/engineer.[50] He is also known for his studies on human anatomy and physiology.


The study of the human body, albeit from different directions and for different purposes, is an important common link between medicine and some engineering disciplines. Medicine aims to sustain, repair, enhance and even replace functions of the human body, if necessary, through the use of technology.




Genetically engineered mice expressing green fluorescent protein, which glows green under blue light. The central mouse is wild-type.


Modern medicine can replace several of the body's functions through the use of artificial organs and can significantly alter the function of the human body through artificial devices such as, for example, brain implants and pacemakers.[51][52] The fields of bionics and medical bionics are dedicated to the study of synthetic implants pertaining to natural systems.
Conversely, some engineering disciplines view the human body as a biological machine worth studying and are dedicated to emulating many of its functions by replacing biology with technology. This has led to fields such as artificial intelligence, neural networks, fuzzy logic, and robotics. There are also substantial interdisciplinary interactions between engineering and medicine.[53][54]
Both fields provide solutions to real world problems. This often requires moving forward before phenomena are completely understood in a more rigorous scientific sense and therefore experimentation and empirical knowledge is an integral part of both.
Medicine, in part, studies the function of the human body. The human body, as a biological machine, has many functions that can be modeled using engineering methods.[55]
The heart for example functions much like a pump,[56] the skeleton is like a linked structure with levers,[57] the brain produces electrical signals etc.[58] These similarities as well as the increasing importance and application of engineering principles in medicine, led to the development of the field of biomedical engineering that uses concepts developed in both disciplines.
Newly emerging branches of science, such as systems biology, are adapting analytical tools traditionally used for engineering, such as systems modeling and computational analysis, to the description of biological systems.[55]
Art[edit]
There are connections between engineering and art;[59] they are direct in some fields, for example, architecture, landscape architecture and industrial design (even to the extent that these disciplines may sometimes be included in a university's Faculty of Engineering); and indirect in others.[59][60][61][62]
The Art Institute of Chicago, for instance, held an exhibition about the art of NASA's aerospace design.[63] Robert Maillart's bridge design is perceived by some to have been deliberately artistic.[64] At the University of South Florida, an engineering professor, through a grant with the National Science Foundation, has developed a course that connects art and engineering.[60][65]
Among famous historical figures, Leonardo da Vinci is a well-known Renaissance artist and engineer, and a prime example of the nexus between art and engineering.[50][66]
Business Engineering and Engineering Management[edit]
Business Engineering deals with the relationship between professional engineering, IT systems, business administration and change management. Engineering management or "Management engineering" is a specialized field of management concerned with the engineering sector. The demand for management-focused engineers (or from the opposite perspective, managers with an understanding of engineering), has resulted in the development of specialized engineering management degrees that develop the knowledge and skills needed for these roles. During an engineering management course, students will develop industrial engineering skills, knowledge, and expertise, alongside knowledge of business administration, management techniques, and strategic thinking. Engineers specializing in change management must have in-depth knowledge of the application of industrial and organizational psychology principles and methods. Professional engineers often train as certified management consultants in the very specialized field of management consulting applied to the engineering sector. This work often deals with large scale complex business transformation or Business process management initiatives in aerospace and defence, automotive, oil and gas, machinery, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, electrical & electronics, power distribution & generation, utilities and transportation systems. This combination of technical engineering practice, management consulting practice, industry sector knowledge, and change management expertise enables professional engineers who are also qualified as management consultants to lead major business transformation initiatives. These initiatives are typically sponsored by C-level executives.
Other fields[edit]
In other fields not associated with professional engineering the word "engineer" and or "engineering" has been adapted to mean design, develop, contrive, manipulate, implement an outcome.[citation needed] In political science, the term engineering has been borrowed for the study of the subjects of social engineering and political engineering, which deal with forming political and social structures using engineering methodology coupled with political science principles. Financial engineering has similarly borrowed the term.
See also[edit]


Part of a series on


Science





Formal




Logic
Mathematics



Mathematical logic
Mathematical statistics
Theoretical computer science









Physical




Chemistry





Acid-base
Analytical
Environmental
Inorganic
Nuclear
Organic
Physical
Solid-state
Supramolecular
Sustainable ("green")
Theoretical




Astrochemistry
Biochemistry
Crystallography
Food chemistry
Geochemistry
Materials science
Molecular physics
Photochemistry
Radiochemistry
Stereochemistry
Surface science





Physics





Classical
Modern
Applied




Experimental
Theoretical



Computational



Atomic
Condensed matter




Mechanics


(classical
continuum
fluid
solid)







Molecular
Nuclear
Particle
Plasma
Quantum field theory
Quantum mechanics (introduction)




Special relativity
General relativity
Rheology
String theory
Thermodynamics





Earth sciences





Climatology
Ecology
Edaphology
Environmental science
Geodesy
Geography (physical)
Geology
Geomorphology
Geophysics
Glaciology
Hydrology
Limnology
Meteorology
Oceanography
Paleoclimatology
Paleoecology
Palynology
Pedology
Volcanology





Space science





Astronomy
Astrophysics
Cosmology
Galactic astronomy
Planetary geology
Planetary science
Stellar astronomy













Life




Biology





Anatomy
Astrobiology
Biochemistry
Biogeography
Biological engineering
Biophysics
Behavioral neuroscience
Biotechnology
Botany
Cell biology
Conservation biology
Cryobiology
Developmental biology
Ecology
Ethnobiology
Ethology
Evolutionary biology (introduction)
Genetics (introduction)
Gerontology
Immunology
Limnology
Marine biology
Microbiology
Molecular biology
Neuroscience
Paleontology
Parasitology
Physiology
Radiobiology
Soil biology
Sociobiology
Systematics
Toxicology
Zoology













Social




Anthropology
Archaeology
Criminology
Demography
Economics
Geography (human)
History
International relations
Law
Linguistics
Pedagogy
Political science
Psychology
Science education
Sociology










Applied




Engineering





Aerospace
Agricultural
Biological
Biomedical
Chemical
Civil
Computer science / engineering




Electrical
Fire protection
Genetic
Industrial
Mechanical
Military
Mining
Nuclear
Operations research
Robotics
Software
Web





Healthcare





Medicine
Veterinary
Dentistry
Midwifery
Epidemiology
Pharmacy
Nursing













Interdisciplinary




Applied physics
Artificial intelligence
Bioethics
Bioinformatics
Biomedical engineering
Biostatistics
Cognitive science
Complex systems
Computational linguistics
Cultural studies
Cybernetics
Environmental science
Environmental social science
Environmental studies
Ethnic studies
Evolutionary psychology




Forensics
Forestry
Library science



Mathematical / theoretical biology



Mathematical physics
Military science
Network science
Neural engineering
Neuroscience
Science studies
Scientific modelling
Semiotics
Sociobiology
Statistics
Systems science
Urban planning
Web science













Philosophy
History







Basic research
Citizen science
Fringe science
Protoscience
Pseudoscience
Freedom
Policy
Funding
Method
Technoscience









Outline
Portal
Category







v
t
e









Engineering portal




Main article: Outline of engineering

Lists



List of engineering topics
List of engineers
Engineering society
List of aerospace engineering topics
List of basic chemical engineering topics
List of electrical engineering topics
List of genetic engineering topics
List of mechanical engineering topics
List of nanoengineering topics
List of software engineering topics



Glossaries



Glossary of engineering
Glossary of areas of mathematics
Glossary of biology
Glossary of chemistry
Glossary of physics



Related subjects



Controversies over the term Engineer
Design
Earthquake engineering
Engineer
Engineering economics
Engineering education
Engineering education research
Engineers Without Borders
Forensic engineering
Global Engineering Education
Industrial design
Infrastructure
Mathematics
Open hardware
Reverse engineering
Science
Science and technology
Structural failure
Sustainable engineering
Women in engineering
Planned obsolescence


References[edit]


^ "About IAENG". iaeng.org. International Association of Engineers. Retrieved 17 December 2016. 
^ ABET History
^ Engineers' Council for Professional Development. (1947). Canons of ethics for engineers
^ a b c d e f g h Engineers' Council for Professional Development definition on Encyclopædia Britannica (Includes Britannica article on Engineering)
^ Oxford English Dictionary
^ Origin: 1250–1300; ME engin < AF, OF < L ingenium nature, innate quality, esp. mental power, hence a clever invention, equiv. to in- + -genium, equiv. to gen- begetting; Source: Random House Unabridged Dictionary, Random House, Inc. 2006.
^ Barry J. Kemp, Ancient Egypt, Routledge 2005, p. 159
^ "The Antikythera Mechanism Research Project", The Antikythera Mechanism Research Project. Retrieved 2007-07-01 Quote: "The Antikythera Mechanism is now understood to be dedicated to astronomical phenomena and operates as a complex mechanical "computer" which tracks the cycles of the Solar System."
^ Wilford, John. (July 31, 2008). Discovering How Greeks Computed in 100 B.C.. New York Times.
^ Wright, M T. (2005). "Epicyclic Gearing and the Antikythera Mechanism, part 2". Antiquarian Horology. 29 (1 (September 2005)): 54–60. 
^ Britannica on Greek civilization in the 5th century Military technology Quote: "The 7th century, by contrast, had witnessed rapid innovations, such as the introduction of the hoplite and the trireme, which still were the basic instruments of war in the 5th." and "But it was the development of artillery that opened an epoch, and this invention did not predate the 4th century. It was first heard of in the context of Sicilian warfare against Carthage in the time of Dionysius I of Syracuse."
^ Jenkins, Rhys (1936). Links in the History of Engineering and Technology from Tudor Times. Ayer Publishing. p. 66. ISBN 0-8369-2167-4. 
^ Cowan, Ruth Schwartz (1997), A Social History of American Technology, New York: Oxford University Press, p. 138, ISBN 0-19-504605-6 
^ Hunter, Louis C. (1985). A History of Industrial Power in the United States, 1730–1930, Vol. 2: Steam Power. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia. 
^ Williams, Trevor I. A Short History of Twentieth Century Technology. USA: Oxford University Press. p. 3. ISBN 978-0198581598. 
^ Van Every, Kermit E. (1986). "Aeronautical engineering". Encyclopedia Americana. 1. Grolier Incorporated. p. 226. 
^ Wheeler, Lynde, Phelps (1951). Josiah Willard Gibbs — the History of a Great Mind. Ox Bow Press. ISBN 1-881987-11-6. 
^ Journal of the British Nuclear Energy Society: Volume 1 British Nuclear Energy Society – 1962 – Snippet view Quote: In most universities it should be possible to cover the main branches of engineering, i.e. civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical engineering in this way. More specialised fields of engineering application, of which nuclear power is ...
^ The Engineering Profession by Sir James Hamilton, UK Engineering Council Quote: "The Civilingenior degree encompasses the main branches of engineering civil, mechanical, electrical, chemical." (From the Internet Archive)
^ Indu Ramchandani (2000). Student's Britannica India,7vol.Set. Popular Prakashan. p. 146. ISBN 978-0-85229-761-2. Retrieved 23 March 2013. BRANCHES There are traditionally four primary engineering disciplines: civil, mechanical, electrical and chemical. 
^ Bronzino JD, ed., The Biomedical Engineering Handbook, CRC Press, 2006, ISBN 0-8493-2121-2
^ Bensaude-Vincent, Bernadette (March 2001). "The construction of a discipline: Materials science in the United States". Historical Studies in the Physical and Biological Sciences. 31 (2): 223–248. doi:10.1525/hsps.2001.31.2.223. 
^ http://www.careercornerstone.org/pdf/nuclear/nuceng.pdf
^ Vincenti, Walter G. (1993-02-01). What Engineers Know and How They Know It: Analytical Studies from Aeronautical History. The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0-8018-4588-2.
^ Koen, Billy Vaughn (2013). Discussion of The Method (1 ed.). New York Oxford: Oxford University Press. p. 8. ISBN 0-19-515599-8. Retrieved 23 July 2015. 
^ Arbe, Katrina (2001-05-07). "PDM: Not Just for the Big Boys Anymore". ThomasNet. Retrieved 2006-12-30. 
^ Arbe, Katrina (2003-05-22). "The Latest Chapter in CAD Software Evaluation". ThomasNet. Retrieved 2006-12-30. 
^ PDF on Human Development
^ MDG info pdf
^ Home page for EMI
^ "engineeringuk.com/About_us". 
^ http://www.georgededwards.co.uk/policy/why-does-it-matter-why-are-engineering-skills-important
^ http://www.georgededwards.co.uk/the-era-foundation-report.html
^ Rosakis, Ares Chair, Division of Engineering and Applied Science. "Chair's Message, Caltech.". Archived from the original on 4 November 2011. Retrieved 15 October 2011. 
^ Ryschkewitsch, M.G. NASA Chief Engineer. "Improving the capability to Engineer Complex Systems –Broadening the Conversation on the Art and Science of Systems Engineering" (PDF). p. 8 of 21. Retrieved 15 October 2011. 
^ American Society for Engineering Education (1970). Engineering education. 60. American Society for Engineering Education. p. 467. The great engineer Theodore von Karman once said, "Scientists study the world as it is, engineers create the world that never has been." Today, more than ever, the engineer must create a world that never has been ... 
^ Vincenti, Walter G. (1993). What Engineers Know and How They Know It: Analytical Studies from Aeronautical History. Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0-8018-3974-2. 
^ Walter G Whitman; August Paul Peck. Whitman-Peck Physics. American Book Company, 1946, p. 06. OCLC 3247002
^ Ateneo de Manila University Press. Philippine Studies, vol. 11, no. 4, 1963. p. 600
^ "Relationship between physics and electrical engineering," in Journal of the A.I.E.E., vol. 46, no. 2, pp. 107-108, Feb. 1927.
^ Puttaswamaiah. Future Of Economic Science. Oxford and IBH Publishing, 2008, p. 208.
^ Yoseph Bar-Cohen, Cynthia L. Breazeal. Biologically Inspired Intelligent Robots. SPIE Press, 2003. ISBN 9780819448729. p. 190
^ C. Morón, E. Tremps, A. García, J.A. Somolinos (2011) The Physics and its Relation with the Engineering, INTED2011 Proceedings pp. 5929-5934. ISBN 978-84-614-7423-3
^ R Gazzinelli, R L Moreira, W N Rodrigues. Physics and Industrial Development: Bridging the Gap. World Scientific, 1997, p. 110.
^ Steve Fuller. Knowledge Management Foundations. Routledge, 2012. ISBN 9781136389825. p. 92
^ "Industrial Physicists: Primarily specialising in Engineering" (PDF). American Institute for Physics. October 2016. 
^ "2111 - Physicists and astronomers". National Occupational Classification - Canada. 2016. Retrieved November 11, 2016. 
^ "Physicist". nationalcareersservice.direct.gov.uk. National Careers Service, United Kingdom. 7 October 2016. 
^ Classical and Computational Solid Mechanics, YC Fung and P. Tong. World Scientific. 2001. 
^ a b Bjerklie, David. "The Art of Renaissance Engineering." MIT's Technology Review Jan./Feb.1998: 54-9. Article explores the concept of the "artist-engineer", an individual who used his artistic talent in engineering. Quote from article: Da Vinci reached the pinnacle of "artist-engineer"-dom, Quote2: "It was Leonardo da Vinci who initiated the most ambitious expansion in the role of artist-engineer, progressing from astute observer to inventor to theoretician." (Bjerklie 58)
^ Ethical Assessment of Implantable Brain Chips. Ellen M. McGee and G. Q. Maguire, Jr. from Boston University
^ IEEE technical paper: Foreign parts (electronic body implants).by Evans-Pughe, C. quote from summary: Feeling threatened by cyborgs?
^ Institute of Medicine and Engineering: Mission statement The mission of the Institute for Medicine and Engineering (IME) is to stimulate fundamental research at the interface between biomedicine and engineering/physical/computational sciences leading to innovative applications in biomedical research and clinical practice.
^ IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology: Both general and technical articles on current technologies and methods used in biomedical and clinical engineering ...
^ a b Royal Academy of Engineering and Academy of Medical Sciences: Systems Biology: a vision for engineering and medicine in pdf: quote1: Systems Biology is an emerging methodology that has yet to be defined quote2: It applies the concepts of systems engineering to the study of complex biological systems through iteration between computational and/or mathematical modelling and experimentation.
^ Science Museum of Minnesota: Online Lesson 5a; The heart as a pump
^ Minnesota State University emuseum: Bones act as levers
^ UC Berkeley News: UC researchers create model of brain's electrical storm during a seizure
^ a b Lehigh University project: We wanted to use this project to demonstrate the relationship between art and architecture and engineering
^ a b National Science Foundation:The Art of Engineering: Professor uses the fine arts to broaden students' engineering perspectives
^ MIT World:The Art of Engineering: Inventor James Dyson on the Art of Engineering: quote: A member of the British Design Council, James Dyson has been designing products since graduating from the Royal College of Art in 1970.
^ University of Texas at Dallas: The Institute for Interactive Arts and Engineering
^ Aerospace Design: The Art of Engineering from NASA's Aeronautical Research
^ Princeton U: Robert Maillart's Bridges: The Art of Engineering: quote: no doubt that Maillart was fully conscious of the aesthetic implications ...
^ quote:..the tools of artists and the perspective of engineers..
^ Drew U: user website: cites Bjerklie paper


Further reading[edit]


Blockley, David (2012). Engineering: a very short introduction. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-957869-6. 
Dorf, Richard, ed. (2005). The Engineering Handbook (2 ed.). Boca Raton: CRC. ISBN 0-8493-1586-7. 
Billington, David P. (1996-06-05). The Innovators: The Engineering Pioneers Who Made America Modern. Wiley; New Ed edition. ISBN 0-471-14026-0. 
Petroski, Henry (1992-03-31). To Engineer is Human: The Role of Failure in Successful Design. Vintage. ISBN 0-679-73416-3. 
Petroski, Henry (1994-02-01). The Evolution of Useful Things: How Everyday Artifacts-From Forks and Pins to Paper Clips and Zippers-Came to be as They are. Vintage. ISBN 0-679-74039-2. 
Lord, Charles R. (2000-08-15). Guide to Information Sources in Engineering. Libraries Unlimited. doi:10.1336/1563086999. ISBN 1-56308-699-9. 
Vincenti, Walter G. (1993-02-01). What Engineers Know and How They Know It: Analytical Studies from Aeronautical History. The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0-8018-4588-2. 
Hill, Donald R. (1973-12-31) [1206]. The Book of Knowledge of Ingenious Mechanical Devices: Kitáb fí ma'rifat al-hiyal al-handasiyya. Pakistan Hijara Council. ISBN 969-8016-25-2. 


External links[edit]



Look up engineering in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.





Wikiversity has learning resources about Engineering





Wikiquote has quotations related to: Engineering



National Society of Professional Engineers position statement on Licensure and Qualifications for Practice
National Academy of Engineering (NAE)
American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE)
The US Library of Congress Engineering in History bibliography
Engineering videos at a secondary school level.
History of engineering bibliography at University of Minnesota







v
t
e


Engineering






Civil



Architectural
Construction
Earthquake
Hydraulic
Mining
Structural
Geotechnical
Transportation
Environmental








Mechanical



Aerospace
Acoustical
Automotive
Marine
Mechatronics
Railway








Electrical



Computer
Control
Electronics
Electromechanics
Optical
Power
Photonics
Telecommunications
Radio Frequency








Chemical



Biochemical
Biological
Molecular
Nanotechnology
Process
Reaction
Thermodynamics
Transport phenomena








Interdisciplinarity



Audio
Engineering mathematics
Biomedical
Fire
Industrial
Materials science
Robotics
Military
Nuclear
Security
Systems
Privacy











List of engineering branches
  Category:Engineering
   Engineering portal












v
t
e


Technology









Outline of technology
Outline of applied science








Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural engineering
Aquaculture
Fisheries science
Food chemistry
Food engineering
Food microbiology
Food technology
GURT
ICT
Nutrition








Biomedical



Bioinformatics
Biological engineering
Biomechatronics
Biomedical engineering
Biotechnology
Cheminformatics
Genetic engineering
Healthcare science
Medical research
Medical technology
Nanomedicine
Neuroscience
Neurotechnology
Pharmacology
Reproductive technology
Tissue engineering








Buildings and
construction



Acoustical engineering
Architectural engineering
Building services engineering
Civil engineering
Construction engineering
Domestic technology
Facade engineering
Fire protection engineering
Safety engineering
Sanitary engineering
Structural engineering








Educational



Educational software
Digital technologies in education
ICT in education
Impact
Multimedia learning
Virtual campus
Virtual education








Energy



Nuclear engineering
Nuclear technology
Petroleum engineering
Soft energy technology








Environmental



Clean technology
Clean coal technology
Ecological design
Ecological engineering
Ecotechnology
Environmental engineering
Environmental engineering science
Green building
Green nanotechnology
Landscape engineering
Renewable energy
Sustainable design
Sustainable engineering








Industrial



Automation
Business informatics
Engineering management
Enterprise engineering
Financial engineering
Industrial biotechnology
Industrial engineering
Metallurgy
Mining engineering
Productivity improving technologies
Research and development
Tribology








IT and
communications



Artificial intelligence
Broadcast engineering
Computer engineering
Computer science
Financial technology
Information technology
Music technology
Ontology engineering
RF engineering
Software engineering
Telecommunications engineering
Visual technology
Web engineering








Military



Army engineering maintenance
Electronic warfare
Military communications
Military engineering
Stealth technology








Transport



Aerospace engineering
Automotive engineering
Naval architecture
Space technology
Traffic engineering
Transport engineering












Others




Applied
science



Cryogenics
Electro-optics
Electronics
Engineering geology
Engineering physics
Hydraulics
Materials science
Microfabrication
Nanoengineering








Engineering
(list)



Audio
Biochemical
Ceramic
Chemical
Polymer
Control
Electrical
Electronic
Entertainment
Geotechnical
Hydraulic
Mechanical
Mechatronics
Optical
Protein
Quantum
Robotics

Animatronics


Systems

















Components



Infrastructure
Invention

Timeline


Knowledge
Machine
Skill

Craft


Tool

Gadget










Scales



Femtotechnology
Picotechnology
Nanotechnology
Microtechnology
Macro-engineering
Megascale engineering








History



Prehistoric technology
Neolithic Revolution
Ancient technology
Medieval technology
Renaissance technology
Industrial Revolution

Second


Atomic Age
Jet Age
Space Age
Digital Revolution
Information Age








Theories and
concepts



Appropriate technology
Collingridge dilemma
Critique of technology
Diffusion of innovations
Disruptive innovation
Dual-use technology
Ephemeralization
High tech
Hype cycle
Low-technology
Mature technology
Strategy of Technology
Technicism
Techno-progressivism
Technocapitalism
Technocentrism
Technocracy
Technocriticism
Technoculture
Technoethics
Technoetic
Technogaianism
Technoliberalism
Technolibertarianism
Technological alliance
Technological apartheid
Technological change
Technological convergence
Technological determinism
Technological escalation
Technological evolution
Technological fix
Technological innovation system
Technological momentum
Technological nationalism
Technological paradigm
Technological rationality
Technological revival
Technological revolution
Technological self-efficacy
Technological singularity

Singularitarianism


Technological somnambulism
Technological transitions
Technological unemployment
Technological utopianism
Technology lifecycle

Technology acceptance model
Technology adoption lifecycle


Technomancy
Technopaganism
Technorealism
Technoromanticism
Technoscience

feminist


Transhumanism








Other



Emerging technologies

List


Fictional technology
High-technology business districts
Kardashev scale
List of technologies
Philosophy of technology

Ethics of technology


Science, technology and society

Technology dynamics
Science and technology by country


STEM fields

Pre-STEM
women


STEAM fields
Technology alignment
Technology assessment
Technology brokering
Technology companies
Technology demonstration
Technology education

Technical universities and colleges


Technology evangelist
Technology fusion
Technology governance
Technology integration
Technology journalism
Technology management
Technology museum
Technology policy
Technology shock
Technology strategy
Technology and society
Technology transfer
Technophilia
Technophobia
Technoself
Technosexual
Technosignature
Technostress
Terotechnology











 Book
 Category
 Portal












v
t
e


Philosophy of science










Concepts



Analysis
Analytic–synthetic distinction
A priori and a posteriori
Causality
Commensurability
Consilience
Construct
Creative synthesis
Demarcation problem
Empirical evidence
Explanatory power
Fact
Falsifiability
Feminist method
Ignoramus et ignorabimus
Inductive reasoning
Intertheoretic reduction
Inquiry
Nature
Objectivity
Observation
Paradigm
Problem of induction
Scientific law
Scientific method
Scientific revolution
Scientific theory
Testability
Theory choice
Theory-ladenness
Underdetermination
Unity of science








Metatheory
of science



Coherentism
Confirmation holism
Constructive empiricism
Constructive realism
Constructivist epistemology
Contextualism
Conventionalism
{Deductive-nomological model
Hypothetico-deductive model
Inductionism}
Epistemological anarchism
Evolutionism
Fallibilism
Foundationalism
Instrumentalism
Pragmatism
Model-dependent realism
Naturalism
Physicalism
Positivism-Reductionism-Determinism
Rationalism / Empiricism
Received view / Semantic view of theories
Scientific realism / Anti-realism
Scientific essentialism
Scientific formalism
Scientific skepticism
Scientism
Structuralism
Uniformitarianism
Vitalism








Philosophy of



Physics

thermal and statistical
Motion


Chemistry
Biology
Environment
Geography
Social science
Technology

Engineering
Artificial intelligence
Computer science


Information
Mind
Psychiatry
Psychology
Perception
Space and time








Related topics



Alchemy
Criticism of science
Epistemology
Faith and rationality
History and philosophy of science
History of science
History of evolutionary thought
Logic
Metaphysics
Pseudoscience
Relationship between religion and science
Rhetoric of science
Sociology of scientific knowledge
Sociology of scientific ignorance















 
Philosophers of science by era










Ancient



Plato
Aristotle
Stoicism
Epicurians








Medieval



Averroes
Avicenna
Roger Bacon
William of Ockham
Hugh of Saint Victor
Dominicus Gundissalinus
Robert Kilwardby








Early modern



Francis Bacon
Thomas Hobbes
René Descartes
Galileo Galilei
Pierre Gassendi
Isaac Newton
David Hume








Classical modern



Immanuel Kant
Friedrich Schelling
Auguste Comte
William Whewell
Wilhelm Windelband
John Stuart Mill
Herbert Spencer
Pierre Duhem
Henri Poincaré
Wilhelm Wundt








Late modern



Albert Einstein
Bertrand Russell
Alfred North Whitehead
Rudolf Steiner
Rudolf Carnap
W. V. O. Quine
Bas van Fraassen
Carl Gustav Hempel
Charles Sanders Peirce
Daniel Dennett
Hans Reichenbach
Ian Hacking
Imre Lakatos
Jürgen Habermas
Karl Pearson
Karl Popper
Larry Laudan
Michael Polanyi
Otto Neurath
Paul Feyerabend
Thomas Kuhn

















Portal
Category









Authority control



LCCN: sh85043176
GND: 4137304-2
BNF: cb11950236f (data)
NDL: 00566144









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Engineering&oldid=764372067"					
Categories: EngineeringEngineering occupationsEthicsPhilosophy of scienceHidden categories: Pages using ISBN magic linksArticles needing additional references from August 2013All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from December 2010Articles that may contain original research from July 2010All articles that may contain original researchArticles with unsourced statements from March 2013Articles with unsourced statements from August 2013Articles with unsourced statements from November 2011Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikiquote 



Languages


AfrikaansAlemannischአማርኛالعربيةAragonésঅসমীয়াAsturianuAzərbaycancaবাংলাBân-lâm-gúБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEmiliàn e rumagnòlEspañolEsperantoEstremeñuEuskaraفارسیFrançaisFryskFurlanGaeilgeGaelgGàidhligGalego贛語Gĩkũyũગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIdoIlokanoবিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরীBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitutIsiXhosaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaKalaallisutಕನ್ನಡქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliKreyòl ayisyenKurdîКыргызчаLadinoລາວLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLimburgsLivvinkarjalaMagyarमैथिलीМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംमराठीBahasa MelayuMirandésМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語NapulitanoNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskNovialOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆOromooOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаਪੰਜਾਬੀپنجابیپښتوPatoisភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусиньскыйРусскийGagana Samoaसंस्कृतम्SarduScotsShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиBasa SundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยትግርኛТоҷикӣTshivendaTürkçeTürkmençeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng ViệtVolapükWinarayייִדיש粵語Žemaitėška中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 February 2017, at 15:30.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.688","walltime":"0.807","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5173,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":267752,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":14402,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":7,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  572.312      1 -total"," 25.99%  148.758      1 Template:Reflist"," 16.31%   93.350      7 Template:Citation_needed"," 14.93%   85.444      7 Template:Fix"," 12.94%   74.041     17 Template:Cite_book","  9.96%   56.995      7 Template:Delink","  9.10%   52.089      9 Template:Cite_web","  8.53%   48.842      7 Template:Navbox","  6.86%   39.261      1 Template:Science","  4.97%   28.423      4 Template:Ambox"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.284","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":6327111,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1237","timestamp":"20170212035108","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":77,"wgHostname":"mw1261"});});
