 






Packaging and labeling

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"Packaging" redirects here. For other uses, see Packaging (disambiguation).




UK Risperdal Tablets 2000 in a blister pack, which was itself packaged in a folding carton made of paperboard


Packaging is the technology of enclosing or protecting products for distribution, storage, sale, and use. Packaging also refers to the process of designing, evaluating, and producing packages. Packaging can be described as a coordinated system of preparing goods for transport, warehousing, logistics, sale, and end use. Packaging contains, protects, preserves, transports, informs, and sells.[1] In many countries it is fully integrated into government, business, institutional, industrial, and personal use.
Package labeling (American English) or labelling (British English) is any written, electronic, or graphic communication on the package or on a separate but associated label.



Contents


1 History

1.1 Ancient era
1.2 Modern era

1.2.1 Tinning
1.2.2 Canning
1.2.3 Paper-based packaging


1.3 20th century


2 The purposes of packaging and package labels
3 Packaging types
4 Symbols used on packages and labels

4.1 Shipping container labeling


5 Package development considerations

5.1 Environmental considerations


6 Packaging machines
7 See also
8 References

8.1 Books, general references


9 Further reading



History[edit]
Ancient era[edit]




Bronze wine container from the 9th century BCE.


The first packages used the natural materials available at the time: baskets of reeds, wineskins (bota bags), wooden boxes, pottery vases, ceramic amphorae, wooden barrels, woven bags, etc. Processed materials were used to form packages as they were developed: for example, early glass and bronze vessels. The study of old packages is an important aspect of archaeology.
The earliest recorded use of paper for packaging dates back to 1035, when a Persian traveler visiting markets in Cairo noted that vegetables, spices and hardware were wrapped in paper for the customers after they were sold.[2]
Modern era[edit]
Tinning[edit]
The use of tinplate for packaging dates back to the 18th century. The manufacture of tinplate was long a monopoly of Bohemia; in 1667 Andrew Yarranton, an English engineer, and Ambrose Crowley brought the method to England where it was improved by ironmasters including Philip Foley.[3][4] By 1697, John Hanbury[5] had a rolling mill at Pontypool for making "Pontypoole Plates".[6][7] The method pioneered there of rolling iron plates by means of cylinders enabled more uniform black plates to be produced than was possible with the former practice of hammering.
Tinplate boxes first began to be sold from ports in the Bristol Channel in 1725. The tinplate was shipped from Newport, Monmouthshire.[8] By 1805, 80,000 boxes were made and 50,000 exported. Tobacconists in London began packaging snuff in metal-plated canisters from the 1760s onwards.
Canning[edit]




1914 magazine advertisement for cookware with instructions for home canning.


With the discovery of the importance of airtight containers for food preservation by French inventor Nicholas Appert, the tin canning process was patented by British merchant Peter Durand in 1810.[9] After receiving the patent, Durand did not himself follow up with canning food. He sold his patent in 1812 to two other Englishmen, Bryan Donkin and John Hall, who refined the process and product and set up the world's first commercial canning factory on Southwark Park Road, London. By 1813, they were producing the first canned goods for the Royal Navy.[10]
The progressive improvement in canning stimulated the 1855 invention of the can opener. Robert Yeates, a cutlery and surgical instrument maker of Trafalgar Place West, Hackney Road, Middlesex, UK, devised a claw-ended can opener with a hand-operated tool that haggled its way around the top of metal cans.[11] In 1858, another lever-type opener of a more complex shape was patented in the United States by Ezra Warner of Waterbury, Connecticut.
Paper-based packaging[edit]




Packing folding cartons of salt.


Set-up boxes were first used in the 16th century and modern folding cartons date back to 1839. The first corrugated box was produced commercially in 1817 in England. Corrugated (also called pleated) paper received a British patent in 1856 and was used as a liner for tall hats. Scottish-born Robert Gair invented the pre-cut paperboard box in 1890—flat pieces manufactured in bulk that folded into boxes. Gair's invention came about as a result of an accident: as a Brooklyn printer and paper-bag maker during the 1870s, he was once printing an order of seed bags, and the metal ruler, normally used to crease bags, shifted in position and cut them. Gair discovered that by cutting and creasing in one operation he could make prefabricated paperboard boxes.[12]
Commercial paper bags were first manufactured in Bristol, England, in 1844, and the American Francis Wolle patented a machine for automated bag-making in 1852.
20th century[edit]
Packaging advancements in the early 20th century included Bakelite closures on bottles, transparent cellophane overwraps and panels on cartons. These innovations increased processing efficiency and improved food safety. As additional materials such as aluminum and several types of plastic were developed, they were incorporated into packages to improve performance and functionality.[13]




Heroin bottle and carton, early 20th century.


In 1952, Michigan State University became the first university in the world to offer a degree in Packaging Engineering.[14]
In-plant recycling has long been common for producing packaging materials. Post-consumer recycling of aluminum and paper-based products has been economical for many years: since the 1980s, post-consumer recycling has increased due to curbside recycling, consumer awareness, and regulatory pressure.




A pill box made from polyethylene in 1936.


Many prominent innovations in the packaging industry were developed first for military use. Some military supplies are packaged in the same commercial packaging used for general industry. Other military packaging must transport materiel, supplies, foods, etc. under severe distribution and storage conditions. Packaging problems encountered in World War II led to Military Standard or "mil spec" regulations being applied to packaging, which was then designated "military specification packaging". As a prominent concept in the military, mil spec packaging officially came into being around 1941, due to operations in Iceland experiencing critical losses, ultimately attributed to bad packaging. In most cases, mil spec packaging solutions (such as barrier materials, field rations, antistatic bags, and various shipping crates) are similar to commercial grade packaging materials, but subject to more stringent performance and quality requirements.[15]
As of 2003[update], the packaging sector accounted for about two percent of the gross national product in developed countries. About half of this market was related to food packaging.[16]
The purposes of packaging and package labels[edit]
Packaging and package labeling have several objectives[17]

Physical protection – The objects enclosed in the package may require protection from, among other things, mechanical shock, vibration, electrostatic discharge, compression, temperature,[18] etc.
Barrier protection – A barrier to oxygen, water vapor, dust, etc., is often required. Permeation is a critical factor in design. Some packages contain desiccants or oxygen absorbers to help extend shelf life. Modified atmospheres[19] or controlled atmospheres are also maintained in some food packages. Keeping the contents clean, fresh, sterile[20] and safe for the duration of the intended shelf life is a primary function. A barrier is also implemented in cases where segregation of two materials prior to end use is required, as in the case of special paints, glues, medical fluids, etc. At the consumer end, the packaging barrier is broken or measured amounts of material are removed for mixing and subsequent end use.
Containment or agglomeration – Small objects are typically grouped together in one package for reasons of storage and selling efficiency. For example, a single box of 1000 pencils requires less physical handling than 1000 single pencils. Liquids, powders, and granular materials need containment.
Information transmission – Packages and labels communicate how to use, transport, recycle, or dispose of the package or product. With pharmaceuticals, food, medical, and chemical products, some types of information are required by government legislation. Some packages and labels also are used for track and trace purposes. Most items include their serial and lot numbers on the packaging, and in the case of food products, medicine, and some chemicals the packaging often contains an expiry/best-before date, usually in a shorthand form. Packages may indicate their construction material with a symbol.
Marketing – Packaging and labels can be used by marketers to encourage potential buyers to purchase a product. Package graphic design and physical design have been important and constantly evolving phenomena for several decades. Marketing communications and graphic design are applied to the surface of the package and often to the point of sale display. Most packaging is designed to reflect the brand's message and identity.





A single-serving shampoo packet



Security – Packaging can play an important role in reducing the security risks of shipment. Packages can be made with improved tamper resistance to deter manipulation and they can also have tamper-evident[21] features indicating that tampering has taken place. Packages can be engineered to help reduce the risks of package pilferage or the theft and resale of products: Some package constructions are more resistant to pilferage than other types, and some have pilfer-indicating seals. Counterfeit consumer goods, unauthorized sales (diversion), material substitution and tampering can all be minimized or prevented with such anti-counterfeiting technologies. Packages may include authentication seals and use security printing to help indicate that the package and contents are not counterfeit. Packages also can include anti-theft devices such as dye-packs, RFID tags, or electronic article surveillance[22] tags that can be activated or detected by devices at exit points and require specialized tools to deactivate. Using packaging in this way is a means of retail loss prevention.
Convenience – Packages can have features that add convenience in distribution, handling, stacking, display, sale, opening, reclosing, using, dispensing, reusing, recycling, and ease of disposal
Portion control – Single serving or single dosage packaging has a precise amount of contents to control usage. Bulk commodities (such as salt) can be divided into packages that are a more suitable size for individual households. It also aids the control of inventory: selling sealed one-liter bottles of milk, rather than having people bring their own bottles to fill themselves.

Packaging types[edit]




Various types of household packaging for foods


Packaging may be of several different types. For example, a transport package or distribution package can be the shipping container used to ship, store, and handle the product or inner packages. Some identify a consumer package as one which is directed toward a consumer or household.
Packaging may be described in relation to the type of product being packaged: medical device packaging, bulk chemical packaging, over-the-counter drug packaging, retail food packaging, military materiel packaging, pharmaceutical packaging, etc.
It is sometimes convenient to categorize packages by layer or function: "primary", "secondary", etc.

Primary packaging is the material that first envelops the product and holds it. This usually is the smallest unit of distribution or use and is the package which is in direct contact with the contents.
Secondary packaging is outside the primary packaging, and may be used to prevent pilferage or to group primary packages together.
Tertiary or transit packaging is used for bulk handling, warehouse storage and transport shipping. The most common form is a palletized unit load that packs tightly into containers.

These broad categories can be somewhat arbitrary. For example, depending on the use, a shrink wrap can be primary packaging when applied directly to the product, secondary packaging when used to combine smaller packages, or tertiary packaging when used to facilitate some types of distribution, such as to affix a number of cartons on a pallet.
Symbols used on packages and labels[edit]




A bar code on a tin of condensed milk


Many types of symbols for package labeling are nationally and internationally standardized. For consumer packaging, symbols exist for product certifications (such as the FCC and TÜV marks), trademarks, proof of purchase, etc. Some requirements and symbols exist to communicate aspects of consumer rights and safety, for example the CE marking or the estimated sign that notes conformance to EU weights and measures accuracy regulations. Examples of environmental and recycling symbols include the recycling symbol, the recycling code (which could be a resin identification code), and the "Green Dot". Food packaging may show food contact material symbols. In the European Union, products of animal origin which are intended to be consumed by humans have to carry standard, oval-shaped EC identification and health marks for food safety and quality insurance reasons.
Bar codes, Universal Product Codes, and RFID labels are common to allow automated information management in logistics and retailing. Country of Origin Labeling is often used. Some products might use QR codes or similar matrix barcodes. Packaging may have visible registration marks and other printing calibration and troubleshooting cues.
Shipping container labeling[edit]




"Print & Apply" corner wrap UCC (GS1-128) label application to a pallet load


Technologies related to shipping containers are identification codes, bar codes, and electronic data interchange (EDI). These three core technologies serve to enable the business functions in the process of shipping containers throughout the distribution channel. Each has an essential function: identification codes either relate product information or serve as keys to other data, bar codes allow for the automated input of identification codes and other data, and EDI moves data between trading partners within the distribution channel.
Elements of these core technologies include UPC and EAN item identification codes, the SCC-14 (UPC shipping container code), the SSCC-18 (Serial Shipping Container Codes), Interleaved 2-of-5 and UCC/EAN-128 (newly designated GS1-128) bar code symbologies, and ANSI ASC X12 and UN/EDIFACT EDI standards.
Small parcel carriers often have their own formats. For example, United Parcel Service has a MaxiCode 2-D code for parcel tracking.
RFID labels for shipping containers are also increasingly used. A Wal-Mart division, Sam's Club, has also moved in this direction and is putting pressure on its suppliers to comply.[23]
Shipments of hazardous materials or dangerous goods have special information and symbols (labels, placards, etc.) as required by UN, country, and specific carrier requirements. On transport packages, standardized symbols are also used to communicate handling needs. Some are defined in the ASTM D5445 "Standard Practice for Pictorial Markings for Handling of Goods" and ISO 780 "Pictorial marking for handling of goods".







Flammable liquid









Explosives









This way up









Fragile material









Keep away from water




Further information: List of symbols § Consumer_products
Package development considerations[edit]
Package design and development are often thought of as an integral part of the new product development process. Alternatively, development of a package (or component) can be a separate process, but must be linked closely with the product to be packaged. Package design starts with the identification of all the requirements: structural design, marketing, shelf life, quality assurance, logistics, legal, regulatory, graphic design, end-use, environmental, etc. The design criteria, performance (specified by package testing), completion time targets, resources, and cost constraints need to be established and agreed upon. Package design processes often employ rapid prototyping, computer-aided design, computer-aided manufacturing and document automation.




Transport packaging needs to be matched to its logistics system. Packages designed for controlled shipments of uniform pallet loads may not be suited to mixed shipments with express carriers.


An example of how package design is affected by other factors is its relationship to logistics. When the distribution system includes individual shipments by a small parcel carrier, the sorting, handling, and mixed stacking make severe demands on the strength and protective ability of the transport package. If the logistics system consists of uniform palletized unit loads, the structural design of the package can be designed to meet those specific needs, such as vertical stacking for a longer time frame. A package designed for one mode of shipment may not be suited to another.
With some types of products, the design process involves detailed regulatory requirements for the packaging. For example, any package components that may contact foods are designated food contact materials.[24] Toxicologists and food scientists need to verify that such packaging materials are allowed by applicable regulations. Packaging engineers need to verify that the completed package will keep the product safe for its intended shelf life with normal usage. Packaging processes, labeling, distribution, and sale need to be validated to assure that they comply with regulations that have the well being of the consumer in mind.
Sometimes the objectives of package development seem contradictory. For example, regulations for an over-the-counter drug might require the package to be tamper-evident and child resistant:[25] These intentionally make the package difficult to open.[26] The intended consumer, however, might be handicapped or elderly and unable to readily open the package. Meeting all goals is a challenge.
Package design may take place within a company or with various degrees of external packaging engineering: independent contractors, consultants, vendor evaluations, independent laboratories, contract packagers, total outsourcing, etc. Some sort of formal project planning and project management methodology is required for all but the simplest package design and development programs. An effective quality management system and Verification and Validation protocols are mandatory for some types of packaging and recommended for all.
Environmental considerations[edit]




The waste hierarchy


Main article: sustainable packaging
Package development involves considerations of sustainability, environmental responsibility, and applicable environmental and recycling regulations. It may involve a life cycle assessment[27][28] which considers the material and energy inputs and outputs to the package, the packaged product (contents), the packaging process, the logistics system,[29] waste management, etc. It is necessary to know the relevant regulatory requirements for point of manufacture, sale, and use.
The traditional “three R’s” of reduce, reuse, and recycle are part of a waste hierarchy which may be considered in product and package development.

Prevention – Waste prevention is a primary goal. Packaging should be used only where needed. Proper packaging can also help prevent waste. Packaging plays an important part in preventing loss or damage to the packaged product (contents). Usually, the energy content and material usage of the product being packaged are much greater than that of the package. A vital function of the package is to protect the product for its intended use: if the product is damaged or degraded, its entire energy and material content may be lost.
Minimization – (also "source reduction") The mass and volume of packaging (per unit of contents) can be measured and used as criteria for minimizing the package in the design process. Usually “reduced” packaging also helps minimize costs. Packaging engineers continue to work toward reduced packaging.[30]
Reuse – Reusable packaging is encouraged.[31] Returnable packaging has long been useful (and economically viable) for closed loop logistics systems. Inspection, cleaning, repair and recouperage are often needed. Some manufacturers re-use the packaging of the incoming parts for a product, either as packaging for the outgoing product[32] or as part of the product itself.[33]
Recycling – Recycling is the reprocessing of materials (pre- and post-consumer) into new products. Emphasis is focused on recycling the largest primary components of a package: steel, aluminum, papers, plastics, etc. Small components can be chosen which are not difficult to separate and do not contaminate recycling operations. Packages can sometimes be designed to separate components to better facilitate recycling.
Energy recovery – Waste-to-energy and Refuse-derived fuel in approved facilities make use of the heat available from incinerating the packaging components.
Disposal – Incineration, and placement in a sanitary landfill are undertaken for some materials. Certain US states regulate packages for toxic contents, which have the potential to contaminate emissions and ash from incineration and leachate from landfill.[34] Packages should not be littered.

Development of sustainable packaging is an area of considerable interest to standards organizations, governments, consumers, packagers, and retailers.
Packaging machines[edit]




Beer bottling lines


Choosing packaging machinery includes an assessment of technical capabilities, labor requirements, worker safety, maintainability, serviceability, reliability, ability to integrate into the packaging line, capital cost, floorspace, flexibility (change-over, materials, etc.), energy requirements, quality of outgoing packages, qualifications (for food, pharmaceuticals, etc.), throughput, efficiency, productivity, ergonomics, return on investment, etc.
Packaging machinery can be:

purchased as standard, off-the-shelf equipment
purchased custom-made or custom-tailored to specific operations
manufactured or modified by in-house engineers and maintenance staff

Efforts at packaging line automation increasingly use programmable logic controllers and robotics.
Packaging machines may be of the following general types:

Accumulating and collating machines
Blister packs, skin packs and vacuum packaging machines
Bottle caps equipment, over-capping, lidding, closing, seaming and sealing machines
Box, case and tray forming, packing, unpacking, closing and sealing machines
Cartoning machines
Cleaning, sterilizing, cooling and drying machines
Coding, printing, marking, stamping, and imprinting machines
Converting machines
Conveyor belts, accumulating and related machines
Feeding, orienting, placing and related machines
Filling machines: handling dry, powdered, solid, liquid, gas, or viscous products
Inspecting: visual, sound, metal detecting, etc.
Label dispenser
Orienting, unscrambling machines
Package filling and closing machines
Palletizing, depalletizing, unit load assembly
Product identification: labeling, marking, etc.
Sealing machines: heat sealer
Slitting machines
Weighing machines: check weigher, multihead weigher
Wrapping machines: stretch wrapping, shrink wrap, banding
Form, fill and seal machines
Other specialty machinery: slitters, perforating, laser cutters, parts attachment, etc.








Bakery goods shrinkwrapped by shrink film, heat sealer and heat tunnel on roller conveyor









High speed conveyor with stationary bar code scanner for sorting









Label printer applicator applying a label to adjacent panels of a corrugated box.









Robots used to palletize bread









Automatic stretch wrapping machine









Equipment used for making molded pulp components and molding packaging from straw[35]









A semi-automatic rotary arm stretch wrapper









Equipment for thermoforming packages at NASA









Automated labeling line for wine bottles









Shrink film wrap being applied on PET bottles









Pharmaceutical packaging line




See also[edit]

Brazilian Packaging Market
Document automation
In-mould labelling
Packing problems
Polypropylene raffia
Resealable packaging
Gift wrapping
Zero-waste lifestyle

References[edit]


^ Soroka (2002) Fundamentals of Packaging Technology, Institute of Packaging Professionals ISBN 1-930268-25-4
^ Diana Twede (2005). "The Origins of Paper Based Packaging" (PDF). Conference on Historical Analysis & Research in Marketing Proceedings. 12: 288–300 [289]. Retrieved March 20, 2010. 
^ Brown, P.J. (1988), "Andrew Yarranton and the British tinplate industry", Historical Metallurgy, 22 (1), pp. 42–48 
^ King, P.W. (1988), "Wolverley Lower Mill and the beginnings of the tinplate industry", Historical Metallurgy, 22 (2), pp. 104–113 
^ King 1988, p. 109
^ H.R. Schubert, History of the British iron and steel industry ... to 1775, 429.
^ Minchinton, W.W. (1957), The British tinplate industry: a history, Clarendon Press, Oxford, p. 10 
^ Data extracted from D.P. Hussey et al., Gloucester Port Books Database (CD-ROM, University of Wolverhampton 1995).
^ Geoghegan, Tom (April 21, 2013). "BBC News - The story of how the tin can nearly wasn't". Bbc.co.uk. Retrieved June 4, 2013. 
^ William H. Chaloner (1963). People and Industries. Routledge. p. 107. ISBN 0-7146-1284-7. 
^ Encyclopedia of Kitchen History. Taylor & Francis Group. September 27, 2004. ISBN 978-1-57958-380-4. 
^ Diana Twede & Susan E.M. Selke (2005). Cartons, crates and corrugated board: handbook of paper and wood packaging technology. DEStech Publications. pp. 41–42, 55–56. ISBN 978-1-932078-42-8. 
^ Brody, A. L; Marsh, K. S (1997). Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology. ISBN 0-471-06397-5. 
^ "Michigan State School of Packaging". Michigan State University. Retrieved February 11, 2012. 
^ Maloney, J.C. (July 2003). "The History and Significance of Military Packaging" (PDF). Defence Packaging Policy Group. Defence Logistics Agency. Retrieved 30 Oct, 2016.  Check date values in: |access-date= (help)
^ Y. Schneider; C. Kluge; U. Weiß; H. Rohm (2010). "Packaging Materials and Equipment". In Barry A. Law, A.Y. Tamime. Technology of Cheesemaking: Second Edition. Wiley-Blackwell. p. 413. ISBN 978-1-4051-8298-0. 
^ Bix, L; Rifon; Lockhart; de la Fuente (2003). The Packaging Matrix: Linking Package Design Criteria to the Marketing Mix (PDF). IDS Packaging. Retrieved 9 August 2016. 
^ Choi, Seung-Jin; Burgess (2007). "Practical mathematical model to predict the performance of insulating packages". Packaging Technology and Science. 20 (6): 369–380. doi:10.1002/pts.762. 
^ Lee, Ki-Eun; Kim; An; Lyu; Lee (1998). "Effectiveness of modified atmosphere packaging in preserving a prepared ready-to-eat food". Packaging Technology and Science. 21 (7): 417. doi:10.1002/pts.821. 
^ Severin, J (2007). "New Methodology for Whole-Package Microbial Challenge Testing for Medical Device Trays". J. Testing and Evaluation. 35. doi:10.1520/JTE100869. 
^ Johnston, R.G. (1997). "Effective Vulnerability Assessment of Tamper-Indicating Seals" (PDF). J. Testing and Evaluation. 25 (4). doi:10.1520/JTE11883J. 
^ How Anti-shoplifting Devices Work”, HowStuffWorks.com
^ Bacheldor, Beth (January 11, 2008). "Sam's Club Tells Suppliers to Tag or Pay". Retrieved January 17, 2008. 
^ Sotomayor, R.E.; Arvidson, Kirk, Mayer, McDougal, Sheu (2007). "Regulatory Report, Assessing the Safety of Food Contact Substances". Food Safety.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Rodgers, G.B. (1996). "The safety effects of child-resistant packaging for oral prescription drugs. Two decades of experience". JAMA. 275 (21): 1661–65. doi:10.1001/jama.275.21.1661. PMID 8637140. 
^ Yoxall, A.; Janson, R.; Bradbury, S.R.; Langley, J.; Wearn, J.; Hayes, S. (2006). "Openability: producing design limits for consumer packaging". Packaging Technology and Science. 16 (4): 183–243. doi:10.1002/pts.725. 
^ Zabaniotou, A; Kassidi (2003). "Life cycle assessment applied to egg packaging made from polystyrene and recycled paper". Journal of Cleaner Production. 11 (5): 549–559. doi:10.1016/S0959-6526(02)00076-8. 
^ Franklin (April 2004). "Life Cycle Inventory of Packaging Options for Shipment of Retail Mail-Order Soft Goods" (PDF). Retrieved December 13, 2008. 
^ "SmartWay Transport Partnerships" (PDF). US Environmental Protection Agency. Retrieved December 22, 2008. 
^ DeRusha, Jason (July 16, 2007). "The Incredible Shrinking Package". WCCO. Archived from the original on July 17, 2007. Retrieved July 16, 2007. 
^ Use Reusables: Fundamentals of Reusable Transport Packaging (PDF), US Environmental Protection Agency, 2012, retrieved June 30, 2014 
^ "HP DeskJet 1200C Printer Architecture". (PDF) . Retrieved on June 27, 2012.
^ "Footprints In The Sand". Newsroom-magazine.com. Retrieved on June 27, 2012.
^ "Toxics in Packaging". Retrieved July 31, 2007. 
^ Wood, Marcia (April 2002). "Leftover Straw Gets New Life". Agricultural Research. 


Books, general references[edit]

Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6

Further reading[edit]

Calver, G., What Is Packaging Design, Rotovision. 2004, ISBN 2-88046-618-0.
Dean, D.A., 'Pharmaceutical Packaging Technology", 2000, ISBN 0-7484-0440-6
Fiedler, R.M., "Distribution Packaging Technology", IoPP, 1995
Holkham, T., "Label Writing and Planning – A guide to good customer communication", Chapman & Hall 1995, ISBN 0-7514-0361-X
Jankowski, J., Shelf Space: Modern Package Design, 1945–1965, Chronicle Books. 1988 ISBN 0-8118-1784-9.
Leonard, E.A. (1996), Packaging, Marcel Dekker. ISBN 0-8247-9755-8.
Lockhart, H., and Paine, F.A., "Packaging of Pharmaceuticals and Healthcare Products", 2006, Blackie, ISBN 0-7514-0167-6
Meisner, "Transport Packaging", Third Edition, IoPP, 2016
Morris, S.A., "Food and Package Engineering", 2011, ISBN 978-0-8138-1479-7
Opie, R., Packaging Source Book, 1991, ISBN 1-55521-511-4, ISBN 978-1-55521-511-8
Pilchik, R., "Validating Medical Packaging" 2002, ISBN 1-56676-807-1
Robertson, G.L., "Food Packaging: Principles and Practice", 3rd edition, 2013, ISBN 978-1-4398-6241-4
Selke, S., "Packaging and the Environment", 1994, ISBN 1-56676-104-2
Selke, S., "Plastics Packaging", 2004, ISBN 1-56990-372-7
Stillwell, E.J., "Packaging for the Environment", A.D. Little, 1991, ISBN 0-8144-5074-1







v
t
e


Packaging






General topics



Active packaging
Child-resistant packaging
Disposable food packaging
Food packaging
Luxury packaging
Modified atmosphere/modified humidity packaging
Package pilferage
Package testing
Packaging engineering
Pharmaceutical packaging
Reusable packaging
Shelf life
Sustainable packaging
Tamper-evident
Tamper resistance
Wrap rage








Containers



Aerosol Container
Aluminium bottle
Aluminum can
Ampoule
Antistatic bag
Bag-in-box
Bags and flexible containers
Barrel
Beer bottle
Biodegradable bag
Blister pack
Boil-in-Bag
Bottle
Box
Bulk box
Carboy
Carton
Chub
Clamshell
Corrugated box design
Crate
Disposable cup
Drum
Envelope
Flexible intermediate bulk container
Foam food container
Folding carton
Growler
Insulated shipping container
Intermediate bulk container
Jar
Jerrycan
Jug
Juicebox
Keg
Multi-pack
Oyster pail
Packet (container)
Padded mailer
Pail
Paper bag
Paper sack
Plastic bag
Plastic bottle
Popcorn bag
Retort pouch
Sachet
Security bag
Self-heating can
Self-heating food packaging
Shaker-style pantry box
Shipping container
Skin pack
Spray bottle
Tin can
Tube
Unit load
Vial
Wooden box








Materials and
components



Adhesive
Aluminium foil
Bioplastic
Biodegradable plastic
BoPET
Bubble wrap
Bung
Cellophane
Closure
Coated paper
Coating
Corrugated fiberboard
Corrugated plastic
Cushioning
Desiccant
Double seam
Foam peanut
Glass
Hot-melt adhesive
Kraft paper
Label
Linear low-density polyethylene
Liquid packaging board
Low-density polyethylene
Metallised film
Modified atmosphere
Molded pulp
Nonwoven fabric
Overwrap
Oxygen scavenger
Packaging gas
Pallet
Paper
Paper pallet
Paperboard
Plastic film
Plastic pallet
Plastic wrap
Polyester
Polyethylene
Polypropylene
Pressure-sensitive tape
Screw cap
Screw cap (wine)
Security printing
Security seal
Shock detector
Shock and vibration data logger
Shrink wrap
Slip sheet
Staple (fastener)
Strapping
Stretch wrap
Susceptor
Tear tape
Temperature data logger
Time temperature indicator
Tinplate
Velostat








Processes



Aseptic processing
Authentication
Automatic identification and data capture
Blow fill seal
Blow molding
Calendering
Canning
Coating
Containerization
Curtain Coating
Die cutting
Die forming (plastics)
Electronic article surveillance
Extrusion
Extrusion coating
Glass production
Graphic design
HACCP
Hermetic seal
Induction sealing
Injection molding
Laminating
Laser cutting
Molding
Papermaking
Plastic welding
Plastics extrusion
Printing
Quality assurance
Radio-frequency identification
Roll slitting
Shearing (manufacturing)
Thermoforming
Track and trace
Vacuum forming
Ultrasonic welding
Vacuum packaging
Verification and validation








Machinery



Barcode printer
Barcode reader
Bottling line
Calender
Can seamer
Cartoning machine
Case sealer
Check weigher
Conveyor system
Extended core stretch wrapper
Filler
Heat gun
Heat sealer
Industrial robot
Injection molding machine
Label printer applicator
Lineshaft roller conveyor
Logistics automation
Material handling equipment
Mechanical brake stretch wrapper
Multihead weigher
Orbital stretch wrapping
Palletizer
Rotary wheel blow molding systems
Shrink tunnel
Staple gun
Tape dispenser
Turntable stretch wrapper
Vertical form fill sealing machine








Environment,
post-use



Biodegradation
Environmental engineering
Glass recycling
Industrial ecology
Life-cycle assessment
Litter
Paper recycling
Plastic recycling
Recycling
Reusable packaging
Reverse logistics
Source reduction
Sustainable packaging
Waste management












v
t
e


Labeling






Label Construction



Adhesive
Die cutting (web)
Hologram
In-mould labelling
Label
Paper
Perforation
Pressure sensitive adhesive
Plastic
Printing
Release liner
Security printing
Smart label
Sticker








Content



Advertising
Barcode
Country of origin
Cigarette warning label
Ecolabel
EU energy label
Fair Packaging and Labeling Act
List of food labeling regulations
Mandatory labelling
Nameplate
Nutrition facts label
Radio frequency identification
United Kingdom food labeling regulations
UPC
Warning label
Wine label








Use



Advertising
Authentication
Automatic identification and data capture
Label dispenser
Label printer
Packaging and labeling
Track & Trace









Authority control



GND: 4063118-7
NDL: 00563493









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Packaging_and_labeling&oldid=764621253"					
Categories: Commercial item transport and distributionRetailingPackagingIndustryHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesCS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listPages using ISBN magic linksUse mdy dates from September 2015Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2003All articles containing potentially dated statementsWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia Commons 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাBahasa BanjarCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSlovenčinaSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుTürkçeУкраїнська粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 February 2017, at 23:33.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.304","walltime":"0.386","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1908,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":82863,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":507,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  275.655      1 -total"," 54.81%  151.096      1 Template:Reflist"," 20.45%   56.359     10 Template:Cite_journal","  7.53%   20.767      7 Template:Cite_web","  7.45%   20.539      1 Template:Authority_control","  6.72%   18.534      1 Template:Redirect","  6.04%   16.636      5 Template:Cite_book","  5.33%   14.687      4 Template:Citation","  4.27%   11.768      2 Template:Navbox","  3.72%   10.247      1 Template:Packaging"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.120","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3956084,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1255","timestamp":"20170209233308","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":70,"wgHostname":"mw1268"});});
