 






Technology forecasting

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)






This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (December 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)







This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




(Learn how and when to remove this template message)


Technology forecasting attempts to predict the future characteristics of useful technological machines, procedures or techniques.



Contents


1 Important aspects
2 Rational and explicit methods
3 Methods of technology forecasting
4 Combining forecasts

4.1 Reasons for combining forecasts
4.2 Trend curve and growth curves
4.3 Identification of consistent deviations
4.4 Forecasts of different technologies


5 Uses in manufacturing
6 Forecasting institutes
7 See also
8 References
9 External links



Important aspects[edit]
Primarily, a technological forecast deals with the characteristics of technology, such as levels of technical performance, like speed of a military aircraft, the power in watts of a particular future engine, the accuracy or precision of a measuring instrument, the number of transistors in a chip in the year 2015, etc. The forecast does not have to state how these characteristics will be achieved.
Secondly, technological forecasting usually deals with only useful machines, procedures or techniques. This is to exclude from the domain of technological forecasting those commodities, services or techniques intended for luxury or amusement.
Rational and explicit methods[edit]
The whole purpose of the recitation of alternatives, is to show that there really is no alternative to forecasting. If a decisionmaker has several alternatives open to him, he will choose among them on the basis of which provides him with the most desirable outcome. Thus his decision is inevitably based on a forecast. His only choice is whether the forecast is obtained by rational and explicit methods, or by intuitive means.
The virtues of the use of rational methods are as follows:

They can be taught and learned,
They can be described and explained,
They provide a procedure followable by anyone who has absorbed the necessary training, and in some cases,
These methods are even guaranteed to produce the same forecast regardless of who uses them.

The virtue of the use of explicit methods is that they can be reviewed by others, and can be checked for consistency. Furthermore, the forecast can be reviewed at any subsequent time. Technology forecasting is not imagination.
Methods of technology forecasting[edit]
Commonly adopted methods of technology forecasting include the Delphi method, forecast by analogy, growth curves and extrapolation. Normative methods of technology forecasting — like the relevance trees, morphological models, and mission flow diagrams — are also commonly used.
THE DELPHI METHOD: The Delphi method is a structured communication technique, originally developed as a systematic, interactive forecasting method which relies on a panel of experts. In the standard version, the experts answer questionnaires in two or more rounds. After each round, a facilitator provides an anonymous summary of the experts’ forecasts from the previous round as well as the reasons they provided for their judgments. Thus, experts are encouraged to revise their earlier answers in light of the replies of other members of their panel. It is believed that during this process the range of the answers will decrease and the group will converge towards the "correct" answer. Finally, the process is stopped after a pre-defined stop criterion (e.g. number of rounds, achievement of consensus, stability of results) and the mean or median scores of the final rounds determine the results.
Combining forecasts[edit]
Studies of past forecasts have shown that one of the most frequent reasons why a forecast goes wrong is that the forecaster ignores related fields.
A given technical approach may fail to achieve the level of capability forecast for it, because it is superseded by another technical approach which the forecaster ignored.
Another problem is that of inconsistency between forecasts. Because of these problems, it is often necessary to combine forecasts of different technologies. Therefore rather than to try to select the one method which is most appropriate, it may be better to try to combine the forecasts obtained by different methods.
If this is done, the strengths of one method may help compensate for the weaknesses of another.
Reasons for combining forecasts[edit]
The primary reason for combining forecasts of the same technology is to attempt to offset the weaknesses of one forecasting method with the strengths of another. In addition, the use of more than one forecasting method often gives the forecaster more insight into the processes at work which are responsible for the growth of the technology being forecast.
Trend curve and growth curves[edit]
A frequently used combination is that of growth curves and a trend curve for some technology. Here we see a succession of growth curves, each describing the level of functional capability achieved by a specific technical approach.
An overall trend curve is also shown, fitted to those items of historical data which represent the currently superior approach.
The use of growth curves and a trend curve in combination allows the forecaster to draw some conclusions about the future growth of a technology which might not be possible, were either method used alone.
With growth curves alone, the forecaster could not say anything about the time at which a given technical approach is likely to be supplanted by a successor approach.
With the trend curve alone, the forecaster could not say anything about the ability of a specific technical approach to meet the projected trend, or about the need to look for a successor approach. Thus the need for combining forecasts.
Identification of consistent deviations[edit]
Another frequently used combination of forecasts is that of the trend curve and one or more analogies.
We customarily consider the scatter of data points about a trend curve to be due to random influences which we can neither control nor even measure. However, consistent deviations may represent something other than just random influences.
Where such consistent deviations are identified, we may have an opportunity to apply an analogy. Typical events which bring about deviations from a trend are wars and depressions. Thus the purpose of combining analogies with a trend forecast is to predict deviations from the trend deviations which are associated with or caused by external events or influences.
As with other uses of analogy, it is important to determine the extent to which the analogy between the event used as the basis for the forecast, and the historical model event, satisfies the criteria for a valid analogy.
Forecasts of different technologies[edit]
Combining forecasts of different technologies may be even more important than combining the forecasts of the same technology.
One reason for this is the fact that technologies may interact or be interrelated in some fashion. Another reason for this is that of consistency in an overall picture or scenario. One of the simplest examples of interacting trends is the projection to absurdity, i.e. simply projecting the given data indefinitely without getting any specific result. For instance, if one simply projects recent rates of growth of world population, one arrives at some fantastic conclusions about the density of population in a particular place by various dates in the next millennium.
Some other trends which can confidently be expected to not continue indefinitely are:

Annual production of scientific papers.
Number of automobiles per capita.
Kilowatt hours of electricity generated annually.

Another instance of interacting trends was in the case of the number of scientists in the U.S. growing faster than the overall population. Since the 1940s through the 1960s, science as an activity in the United States grew exponentially. The number of dollars spent on R&D was growing faster than the GNP (in the 1960s).
If projected indefinitely, these two curves would give the result that eventually every person in the U.S. would be working as a scientist and the entire GNP would be devoted to R&D alone, which are however absurd conclusions. Thus it is clear that the scientific discipline of technology forecasting is not mere trend extrapolation but also involves combining forecasts.
Uses in manufacturing[edit]
Almost all modern manufacturing firms utilize the services of a technological forecaster. Nevertheless, there are a number of alternatives to the rational and explicit forecasting of technology, such as 'no forecast', 'anything can happen' (i.e. relying on pure chance), 'window-blind forecasting', 'genius forecasting' and boasting of a 'glorious past' (i.e. adopting the same old techniques).
Thus technological forecasting is not mere astrology or palmistry, but a scientific and well defined procedure adopted by a technological forecaster or a consultancy for the forecasting of a particular technology. Even though technological forecasting is a scientific discipline, some experts are of the view that "the only certainty of a particular forecast is that it is wrong to some degree."
Forecasting institutes[edit]

TechCast Project
Singularity Institute for Artificial Intelligence
Future of Humanity Institute
The Millennium Project
Institute for the Future

See also[edit]

Accelerating change
Delphi method
Forecasting
Futurology
List of emerging technologies
Optimism bias
Reference class forecasting
Strategic foresight
Technology scouting
Technology roadmap

References[edit]


Klopfenstein, Bruce K. "Forecasting consumer adoption of information technology and services - Lessons from home video forecasting". Journal of the American Society for Information Science 1989 Jan;40(1):17-26.
Martino, Joseph (January 1983). Technological Forecasting for Decision Making (2nd ed.). North-Holland. ISBN 0-444-00722-9. 
Makridakis, Spyros; Steven C. Wheelwright; Rob J. Hyndman (December 1998). Forecasting: Methods and Applications (3rd ed.). John Wiley. ISBN 0-471-53233-9. 
Twiss, Brian C. (July 1, 1992). Forecasting for Technologists and Engineers: A Practical Guide for Better Decisions. Institution of Electrical Engineers. ISBN 0-86341-265-3. 

External links[edit]

TechCast Article Series, William Halal Next Next Things
TSTC Forecasting The emerging technology & forecasting office at Texas State Technical College
[1] UNIDO TECHNOLOGY FORESIGHT MANUAL







v
t
e


Emerging technologies







Technology






Fields




Agriculture



Agricultural robot
Closed ecological systems
Cultured meat
Genetically modified food
Precision agriculture
Vertical farming








Architecture



Arcology
Building printing

Contour crafting
D-Shape


Domed city








Biomedical



Artificial uterus
Ampakine
Brain transplant
Cryonics

Cryoprotectant
Cryopreservation
Vitrification
Suspended animation


De-extinction
Genetic engineering

Gene therapy


Head transplant
Isolated brain
Life extension

Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence


Nanomedicine
Nanosensors
Personalized medicine
Regenerative medicine

Stem-cell therapy
Tissue engineering


Robot-assisted surgery
Synthetic biology

Synthetic genomics


Virotherapy

Oncolytic virus


Tricorder
Whole genome sequencing








Displays




Next generation



FED
FLCD
iMoD
Laser
LPD
OLED
OLET
QD-LED
SED
TPD
TDEL
TMOS








Screenless



Bionic contact lens
Head-mounted display
Head-up display
Optical head-mounted display
Virtual retinal display








Other



Autostereoscopy
Flexible display
Holographic display

Computer-generated holography


Multi-primary color display
Ultra HD
Volumetric display











Electronics



Electronic nose
E-textiles
Flexible electronics
Molecular electronics
Nanoelectromechanical systems
Memristor
Spintronics
Thermal copper pillar bump








Energy




Production



Airborne wind turbine
Artificial photosynthesis
Biofuels
Carbon-neutral fuel
Concentrated solar power
Fusion power
Home fuel cell
Hydrogen economy
Methanol economy
Molten salt reactor
Nantenna
Photovoltaic pavement
Space-based solar power
Vortex engine








Storage



Beltway battery
Compressed air energy storage
Flywheel energy storage
Grid energy storage
Lithium–air battery
Molten salt battery
Nanowire battery
Research in lithium-ion batteries
Silicon–air battery
Thermal energy storage
Ultracapacitor








Other



Smart grid
Wireless power












IT and
communications




Ambient intelligence

Internet of Things


Artificial intelligence

Applications of artificial intelligence
Progress in artificial intelligence
Machine translation
Machine vision
Semantic Web
Speech recognition


Atomtronics
Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor
Cybermethodology
Fourth-generation optical discs

3D optical data storage
Holographic data storage


GPGPU
Memory

CBRAM
FRAM
Millipede
MRAM
NRAM
PRAM
Racetrack memory
RRAM
SONOS


Optical computing
Quantum computing
Quantum cryptography
RFID

Chipless RFID


Software-defined radio
Three-dimensional integrated circuit








Manufacturing



3D printing
Claytronics
Molecular assembler
Utility fog








Materials science



Aerogel
Amorphous metal
Artificial muscle
Conductive polymer
Femtotechnology
Fullerene
Graphene
High-temperature superconductivity
High-temperature superfluidity
Linear acetylenic carbon
Metamaterials

Metamaterial cloaking


Metal foam
Multi-function structures
Nanotechnology

Carbon nanotubes
Molecular nanotechnology
Nanomaterials


Picotechnology
Programmable matter
Quantum dots
Silicene
Superalloy
Synthetic diamond








Military



Antimatter weapon
Caseless ammunition
Directed-energy weapon

Laser
Maser
Particle-beam weapon
Sonic weapon
Coilgun
Railgun


Plasma weapon
Pure fusion weapon
Stealth technology
Vortex ring gun








Neuroscience



Artificial brain

Blue Brain Project


Brain–computer interface
Electroencephalography
Mind uploading

Brain-reading
Neuroinformatics


Neuroprosthetics

Bionic eye
Brain implant
Exocortex
Retinal implant










Robotics



Domotics
Nanorobotics
Powered exoskeleton
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Swarm robotics
Uncrewed vehicle








Space science




Launch



Fusion rocket
Non-rocket spacelaunch

Mass driver
Orbital ring
Space elevator
Space fountain
Space tether


Reusable launch system








Propulsion



Beam-powered propulsion
Ion thruster
Laser propulsion
Plasma propulsion engine

Helicon thruster
VASIMR


Project Orion
Nuclear pulse propulsion
Solar sail








Other



Interstellar travel
Propellant depot











Transport




Aerial



Adaptive compliant wing
Aeroscraft
Backpack helicopter
Delivery drone
Flying car
High-altitude platform
Jet pack
Pulse detonation engine
Scramjet
Spaceplane

Skylon


Supersonic transport








Land



Airless tire

Tweel


Alternative fuel vehicle

Hydrogen vehicle


Driverless car
Ground effect train
Maglev train
Personal rapid transit
Vactrain

ET3 Global Alliance
Hyperloop


Vehicular communication systems








Pipeline



Pneumatic transport

Automated vacuum collection
Foodtubes













Other



Anti-gravity
Cloak of invisibility
Digital scent technology
Force field

Plasma window


Immersive virtual reality

VirtuSphere


Magnetic refrigeration
Phased-array optics
Quantum technology

Quantum teleportation













Topics



Collingridge dilemma
Differential technological development
Ephemeralization
Exploratory engineering
Fictional technology
Proactionary principle
Technological change

Technological unemployment


Technological convergence
Technological evolution
Technological paradigm
Technology forecasting

Accelerating change
Moore's law
Technological singularity
Technology scouting


Technology readiness level
Technology roadmap
Transhumanism











 Category
 List









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Technology_forecasting&oldid=737570701"					
Categories: Technology forecastingTechnology assessmentHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing style editing from December 2008All articles needing style editingArticles needing additional references from December 2008All articles needing additional references 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


CatalàDeutschEspañol한국어Portuguêsதமிழ்中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 September 2016, at 18:16.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.156","walltime":"0.209","ppvisitednodes":{"value":743,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":124711,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5570,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":10,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  134.624      1 -total"," 49.79%   67.023      3 Template:Ambox"," 42.28%   56.918      1 Template:Multiple_issues"," 39.61%   53.318      6 Template:Navbox"," 26.62%   35.833      3 Template:Cite_book"," 24.43%   32.884      1 Template:Emerging_technologies"," 13.52%   18.195      1 Template:Tone","  6.27%    8.436      1 Template:Reflist","  4.70%    6.330      2 Template:Icon","  3.84%    5.169      1 Template:Refimprove"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.059","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2796575,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1183","timestamp":"20170130052315","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":65,"wgHostname":"mw1246"});});
