 






Portal:Biotechnology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








The Biotechnology Portal





Welcome to the Biotechnology portal. Biotechnology is a technology based on biology, especially when used in agriculture, food science, and medicine.
Of the many different definitions available, the one declared by the UN Convention on Biological Diversity is one of the broadest:

"Biotechnology means any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms, or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use." (Article 2. Use of Terms)

More about Biotechnology...






Refresh - Edit






Directory







Basic concepts




Allele · Artificial selection · Bioreactor · Cell · DNA · Fermentation · Gene · Plasmid · Protein · RNA
Branches: Blue · Green · Red · White




Biotechnology fields




Bioinformatics


BLAST · Clustal · Docking · FASTA · GenBank · NCBI · PubMed · UniProt


Environmental Biotechnology


Biofuel (Biodiesel) · Biogas · Composting · Water purification


Biotechnology products


· Biosurfactant ·Acetone · Bioethanol · Butanol · Dextran · Pullulan · Xanthan
Fermented food: Bread · Cheese · Yogurt · Kefir · Vinegar · Sauerkraut

└Alcoholic drinks: Beer · Cava · Cider · Mead · Sake · Tequila · Vodka · Whisky · Wine


Fermented Feed Additives: Methionine ·Lysine ·Threonine ·Tryptophan ·
Antibiotics: Amoxicillin · Penicillin


Omics


Bionomics · Chemogenomics · Cytomics · Genomics · Glycomics · Immunoproteomics · Interactomics · Lipidomics · Metabolomics · Metagenomics · Pharmacogenomics · Proteomics · Secretomics · Toxicogenomics · Transcriptomics




Genetic improvement and selection


Artificial selection




Dwarf plant · QTL




Transgenic




A. Tumefaciens · Biolistics · Chimera · Knockdown · Knock-in · Knock-out · Pharming · Ti plasmid
Genetically modified organism: Golden rice


Gene & Cell therapy


Adeno-associated virus · Adenovirus · Stem cell · Electrotransfer · Lentivirus · Cationic liposome · Cationic polymer · shRNA · siRNA · Xenotransplant


Genetic engineering


BAC · Cosmid · Gene library · PCR · YAC
Recombinant proteins: FVIII · FSH · GH · Insulin · Plantibody · Plant-made pharmaceuticals · Use of biotechnology in pharmaceutical manufacturing






Basic techniques and tools



Biology field
Cell culture ·Flow cytometry · Hybridoma · HPLC · NMR · Spectroscopy

Chemical engineering field

Centrifugation · CSTR · DSTR · Crystallization · Chromatography (de repartition, adsorption, hydrophobic, reverse, filtration, ion exchange & affinity) · Dialysis · Electrophoresis · Extraction · Fed Batch · Filtration · PFR · Sedimentation





Interdisciplinary fields




Biology · Biochemicals · Bioelectronics · Biomedical engineering · Biomedicine · Biopharmacology · Chemical engineering · Microbiology · Mining · Nanobiotechnology · Taxonomy · Virology



edit the directory







Do you know the answers?
Categories





How is called the Biotechnology branch applied to industrial processes? - Answer
What is shown in the picture on the right? - Answer


Archive



Biotechnology subcategories:

Bioinformatics - Biotechnology companies - Biotechnology law - Biotechnology products - Cell imaging - Cloning - Genetic engineering - Genetically modified organisms - Molecular genetics - Stem cells



Click the "►" below to see all subcategories:





► Biotechnology






edit






Selected article
How you can collaborate






Escherichia coli, usually abbreviated to E. coli, discovered by Theodor Escherich, a pediatrician and bacteriologist, is one of the main species of bacteria that live in the lower intestines of warm-blooded animals, including birds and mammals. They are necessary for the proper digestion of food and are part of the intestinal flora. Its presence in groundwater is a common indicator of fecal contamination. The name comes from its discoverer, Theodor Escherich. It belongs among the Enterobacteriaceae, and is commonly used as a model organism for bacteria in general. One of the root words of their family's scientific name, "enteric", refers to the intestine, hence "gastroenteritis" (from 'gastro-', stomach, 'entero-' intestine, '-itis', disease). "Fecal" is the adjective for organisms that live in feces, so it is often used synonymously with "enteric".
The number of individual E. coli bacteria in the feces that one human passes in one day averages between 100 billion and 10 trillion. All the different kinds of fecal coli bacteria and all the very similar bacteria that live in the ground (in soil or decaying plants, of which the most common is Enterobacter aerogenes are grouped together under the name coliform bacteria. Technically, the "coliform group" is defined to be all the aerobic and facultative anaerobic, non-spore-forming, Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacteria that ferment lactose with the production of gas within 48 hours at 35°C (95°F). In the body, this gas is released as flatulence).

More... – Archive




Join up and contribute.
Improving and expanding a Biotechnology stub.
Creating an article about Biotechnology:




You can create an article from the requested articles list.




Adding new data to selected questions, anecdotes, articles & title images.
Adding the {{biotech-stub}} to those very little articles related to Biotechnology.
You can make suggests in the discussion page.

edit






Did you know...
Help



Portal:Biotechnology/Selected anecdote/February

Archive




Policies, conventions and guidelines
What are portals?

edit






Things you can do
Web resources









Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : Biotechnic Engineering · Discontinuous stirred-tank reactor · Metanomics · Molecular diagnostics · pH-stat
Expand : Biopharmacology · Bioprocessing · Biotelemetry · Biotechnology Industry Organization · Blue biotechnology · Cabilly patents · Fed batch · Gene library · Green biotechnology · Knock-in · Nanobiotechnology · Piston flow reactor · Red biotechnology · Secretomics · sgRNA · shRNA · White biotechnology · Chemostat · Turbidostat ·





edit



National Center for Biotechnology Information
Biotechnology Rumor Mill
National Council of Students in Biotechnology - Italy (also available in EN)
NuAire: A Manufacturer of Laboratory Equipment in the Biotechnology field
YEBN: The Young European Biotech Network
BioTech Circle by TMA, A Biotech Portal

edit






Basics






v
t
e


Biotechnology






History



History of biotechnology
Timeline of biotechnology
Competitions and prizes in biotechnology











Branches



Blue Biotechnology
Green Biotechnology
Red Biotechnology
White Biotechnology








Biological concepts



Allele
Artificial selection
Cell
DNA/RNA
Fermentation
Gene
Plasmid
Protein








General concepts



Biotechnology companies
Biotechnology industrial park
Biotechnology products
Biotechnology law
Green Revolution
Human Genome Project
Pharmaceutical company








Basic techniques
and tools




Biology field



Bioreactor
Cell culture
Flow cytometry
Hybridoma technology
HPLC
NMR
Spectroscopy








Chemical field



Centrifugation
CSTR
DSTR
Crystallization
Chromatography
Dialysis
Electrophoresis
Extraction
Fed Batch
Filtration
PFR
Sedimentation











Applications



Animal cell culture
Bioinformatics
Biosynthesis
Bionic architecture
Cell immunity
Cloning

Reproductive cloning
Therapeutic cloning


Embryology
Environmental biotechnology
Genetic engineering

Genetically modified organisms
Molecular genetics


Gene therapy
Microbial biodegradation
Omics
Pharmacogenomics
Stem cells
Telomere
Tissue culture








Interdisciplinary fields



Bioeconomy
Bioelectronics
Bioengineering
Biology
Biopharmacology
Biomedical engineering
Biomedicine
Biomimetics
Biochemicals
Biorobotics
Chemical engineering
Microbiology
Mining
Molecular biology
Nanobiotechnology
Virology








Lists



Index of biotechnology articles
List of biotechnology articles
List of biotechnology companies











 Category
 Commons
 Portal












Related portals













Biology
Agriculture and Agronomy







Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species






edit








What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Biotechnology&oldid=698541206"					
Categories: BiotechnologyScience portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةCatalàEspañolहिन्दीÍslenskaBahasa Melayu中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 6 January 2016, at 19:40.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.128","walltime":"0.205","ppvisitednodes":{"value":750,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":46087,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2942,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  125.544      1 -total"," 32.35%   40.611      2 Template:Navbox"," 31.67%   39.756      1 Template:Biotechnology"," 17.83%   22.386      1 Portal:Biotechnology/Title"," 12.65%   15.878      1 Portal:Biotechnology/Title/36"," 10.91%   13.696      1 Portal:Biotechnology/Requested","  8.16%   10.249      3 Template:Icon","  6.90%    8.667      1 Portal:Biotechnology/Projects","  6.08%    7.635      1 Template:Tasks","  5.88%    7.378      1 Portal:Biotechnology/Categories"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.017","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":993882,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1241","timestamp":"20170206223643","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":53,"wgHostname":"mw1170"});});
