 







Portal:Energy

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





edit

The Energy Portal




Welcome to Wikipedia's energy portal, your gateway to the subject of energy and its effects on the world around us. This portal is aimed at educating you about energy and all its uses.








Main page
 
Explore topics & categories
 
Tasks & announcements






Page contents: Introduction • Energy news • Selected article • Selected picture • Selected biography • Did you know? • Quotations • Related portals • Wikiprojects • Associated Wikimedia • Help






edit  watch  
Introduction





Energy is a property of objects and systems of objects to act against a force (to do work), explored in branches of physics such as thermodynamics. Popularly the term is most often used in the context of energy as a public technology: energy resources, their consumption, development, depletion, and conservation. Biologically, bodies rely on food for energy in the same sense as industry relies on fuels to continue functioning. Since economic activities such as manufacturing and transportation can be energy intensive, energy efficiency, energy dependence, energy security and price are key concerns. Increased awareness of the effects of global warming has led to global debate and action for the reduction of greenhouse gases emissions; like many previous energy use patterns, it is changing not due to depletion or supply constraints but due to problems with waste, extraction, or geopolitical scenarios.
First, somehow there is a movement. There happened to be a burst of motion first. Motion implies and embraces energy, includes energy in itself. That first movement is a systematic one. The energy is the “ability of that system to perform work.” After that first movement we have the energy to play with. The universe is the result of the work systematically performed by that burst of motion. Motion can be transferred, transformed and converted into different forms. Whenever we see or sense a work done that means a visible energy. From here on radiation of energy, electromagnetic radiation and so on is easy to follow.
In the context of natural science, energy can take several different forms: thermal, chemical, electrical, radiant, nuclear, etc. These are often grouped as being either kinetic energy or potential energy. Many of these forms can be readily transformed into another with the help of a device - from chemical energy to electrical energy using a battery, for example. Most energy available for human use ultimately comes from the sun, which generates it with nuclear fusion. The enormous potential for fusion and other basic nuclear reactions is expressed by the equation E = mc2.
The concepts of energy and its transformations are useful in explaining natural processes on larger scales: Meteorological phenomena like wind, rain, lightning and tornadoes all result from energy transformations brought about by solar energy on the planet. Life itself is critically dependent on biological energy transformations; organic chemical bonds are constantly broken and made to make the exchange and transformation of energy possible. Read more...



Refresh page contents



edit  watch  
Selected article



The 1973 oil crisis began in earnest on October 17, 1973, when the members of Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries announced, as a result of the ongoing Yom Kippur War, that they would no longer ship petroleum to nations that had supported Israel in its conflict with Syria and Egypt (i.e., to the United States and its allies in Western Europe).
At about the same time, OPEC members agreed to use their leverage over the world price-setting mechanism for oil in order to quadruple world oil prices, after attempts at negotiation failed. Due to the dependence of the industrialized world on OPEC oil, these price increases were dramatically inflationary to the economies of the targeted countries, while at the same time suppressive of economic activity.
This increase in the price of oil had a dramatic effect on oil exporting nations, for the countries of the Middle East who had long been dominated by the industrial powers were seen to have acquired control of a vital commodity. The traditional flow of capital reversed as the oil exporting nations accumulated vast wealth. Meanwhile, the shock produced chaos in the West, and shares on the New York Stock Exchange lost $97 billion in value in six weeks. Read more...










Archives...


Nominate an article...






edit  watch  
Selected picture






Photo credit: BDS2006
Wind farm is a group of wind turbines in the same location used for production of electric power.











Archives...


Nominate a picture...







edit  watch  
Did you know?




During World War I, the German Army produced shale oil from Yarmouk oil shale deposits in Jordan to operate the Hijazi Railway (pictured)?


Dennis Spurgeon, formerly chief operating officer at uranium supplier USEC Inc., became the United States Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy in 2006?


Japan Canada Oil Sands Limited was the first offshore oil company to exploit the Athabasca oil sands in Canada?


Teesside Power Station is the largest combined-cycle gas turbine (CCGT) plant in Europe.?


The Klaipėda Geothermal Demonstration Plant in Lithuania was the first geothermal plant in the Baltic Sea region?


Hitachi Zosen Corporation built the first oil tanker in Japan in 1908 per an order by Standard Oil Company?


Coalbed methane is a form of natural gas extracted from coal beds?


When constructed in 1906, the Baku–Batumi pipeline was the world's longest kerosene pipeline?











Archives...


Nominate a fact...






edit  watch  
Selected biography



Thomas Alva Edison (February 11, 1847 – October 18, 1931) was an American inventor and businessman who developed many devices which greatly influenced life worldwide into the 21st century. Dubbed "The Wizard of Menlo Park" by a newspaper reporter, he was one of the first inventors to apply the principles of mass production to the process of invention, and can therefore be credited with the creation of the first industrial research laboratory.
Edison invented the first commercially practical electric light bulb which, by 1879 would burn for hundreds of hours. He was able to sell the concept to homes and businesses by mass-producing them and creating a complete system for the generation and distribution of electricity.
Edison patented an electric distribution system in 1880, and in January 1882 he switched on the first steam generating power station at Holborn Viaduct in London, UK. The direct current (DC) supply system provided electricity supplies to street lamps and a number of private dwellings within a short distance of the station. The first investor-owned electric utility, Pearl Street Station, New York City, started generating on September 4, 1882, providing 110 volts direct current to 59 customers in lower Manhattan.
Life magazine (USA), in a special double issue, placed Edison first in the list of the "100 Most Important People in the Last 1000 Years," noting that the light bulb he promoted "lit up the world." He was ranked thirty-fifth on Michael H. Hart's list of the most influential figures in history. Read more...










Archives...


Nominate a biography...








edit  watch  
Energy news



17 August 2016: The world's most powerful fast reactor BN-800 reaches its full power production level.
30 December 2015: The world's last operational commercial scale Magnox nuclear power reactor, Wylfa 1, closes in Wales.
13 December 2015: Construction of the Turkmenistan–Afghanistan–Pakistan–India Pipeline starts near the Galkynysh Gas Field in Turkmenistan.
9 December 2015:, The LitPol electricity link, connecting Lithuanian and Polish electricity grids, starts the test operation.
4 December 2015: Thirty workers die as a result of fire at the Azerbaijani Gunashli oilfield in the Caspian Sea.
8 April 2015: Royal Dutch Shell announces a takeover of BG Group for US$70 billion.
27 October 2014: The liquefied natural gas storage and regasification vessel Independence arrives to Klaipėda LNG terminal in Lithuania.
1 September 2014: Russia starts construction of the 4000-kilometer-long Power of Siberia natural gas pipeline from Yakutia to China.
27 August 2014: Gas transmission system operator Transgaz inaugurates Iasi–Ungheni gas pipeline between Romania and Moldova.


Wikinews on energy
Renewable energy news










Archives...


Nominate a story...







edit  watch  
Quotations



"The Stone Age came to an end not for a lack of stones and the oil age will end, but not for a lack of oil." – Ahmed Zaki Yamani, 2000
"If history is any guide, oil will eventually be overtaken by less-costly alternatives well before conventional oil reserves run out. Indeed, oil displaced coal despite still vast untapped reserves of coal, and coal displaced wood without denuding our forest lands." – Alan Greenspan, 2005
"The higher relative prices of energy will create incentives for businesses to create new, energy-saving technologies and for energy consumers to adopt them. The market for alternative fuels is growing rapidly and will help to shift consumption away from petroleum-based fuels." – Ben Bernanke, 2006











Archives...


Nominate a quote...






edit  watch  
Related portals









Technology
Nuclear technology
Engineering









Ecology
Earth sciences
Physics









Transport
Infrastructure
Business & Economics









Sustainable development
Renewable energy
Chemistry






edit  watch  
WikiProjects


WikiProjects connected with energy:

WikiProject Energy
Oil megaprojects task force


Other WikiProjects that may be of interest:

WikiProject Environment
WikiProject Technology
WikiProject Biography





edit  watch  
Help



Puzzled by energy?
Can't answer your question?
Don't understand the answer?

Ask at the reference desk
Read the Wikipedia help pages


For further ideas, to leave a comment, or to learn how you can help improve and update this portal, see the talk page.






edit  watch  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Energy&oldid=672771472"					
Categories: Energy portalScience portalsTechnology portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةCatalàDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisItalianoҚазақшаമലയാളം日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiRomânăРусскийSuomiTürkçeУкраїнська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 23 July 2015, at 19:16.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.184","walltime":"0.329","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2563,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":93213,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":10701,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":10,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  204.586      1 -total"," 47.96%   98.115      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.43%   23.387      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.41%   23.335      1 Portal:Energy/Energy_news","  9.98%   20.412      1 Template:Top_icon","  9.73%   19.904      9 Template:Date","  7.37%   15.075      1 Template:Category_handler","  7.19%   14.716      1 Template:Purge","  5.30%   10.839     11 Template:Box-header-watch","  5.23%   10.700      1 Portal:Energy/TabBar"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.039","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1157513,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1249","timestamp":"20170206175632","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":404,"wgHostname":"mw1249"});});
