 






Portal:Health and fitness

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Portal:Health)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit 
The health and fitness portal





The most widely accepted definition of health is that of the World Health Organization Constitution. It states: "health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity" (World Health Organization, 1946). In more recent years, this statement has been amplified to include the ability to lead a "socially and economically productive life". The WHO definition is not without criticism, mainly that it is too broad. Some argue that health cannot be defined as a state at all, but must be seen as a dynamic process of continuous adjustment to the changing demands of living. In spite of its limitations, the concept of health as defined by WHO is broad and positive in its implications, in that it sets out a high standard for positive health.
The most solid aspects of wellness that fit firmly in the realm of medicine are the environmental health, nutrition, disease prevention, and public health matters that can be investigated and assist in measuring well-being. Please see our medical disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations.
Read more...






edit 
Selected fitness article


The notion of physical fitness is used in two close meanings.
General health
In its most general meaning, physical fitness is a general state of good physical health. A physically handicapped person's body may be physically fit (healthy), though its ability is likely to be less than optimum.
Physical fitness is usually a result of regular physical activity and proper nutrition.
Physical fitness can be divided into different areas, including:

Flexibility
Cardio-respiratory endurance
Strength

The government Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans say to aim for at least 2 hours and 30 minutes of aerobic activity that requires moderate effort each week.
Task-oriented fitness
A person may be said to be physically fit to perform a particular task with a reasonable efficiency, for example, fit for military service.
Military-style
In recent years, Military-style fitness training programs have become increasingly popular among civilians. Courses are available all over the United States and Europe.
These courses always have some common elements. They often focus on military style calisthenics and group runs. The courses are often held very early in the morning and will meet in almost any weather. Students can expect push-ups, sit-ups, pullups, and jumping jacks, as well as more obscure drills such as flutter kicks, sun worshippers and flares. Almost invariably a workout will include short runs while longer runs are more scheduled. Special forces are commonly renowned for their level of fitness and intensity of their workouts.
Read more...




edit 
Selected nutrition article


A healthy diet is a diet which contains a balanced amount of nutrients, varied food such as fruits and vegetables, proteins primarily from fish, dairy products, and nuts. Minimal amounts of caffeine, sugar, fat, salt, and alcohol. Healthy eating is identical to a healthy diet, in that it relates to the practice of food intake for healthy living. Governments often use this term to refer to the ideal diet which the average person requires to remain healthy.
Healthy diet
Despite popular belief, a reliance on a single food which composes the majority of a diet is indicative of poor eating habits. An individual on such a diet may be prone to deficiency and most certainly will not be fulfilling the Recommended Nutrient Intake.
While plants, vegetables, and fruits are known to help reduce the incidence of chronic disease, the benefits on health posed by plant-based foods, as well as the percentage on which a diet needs to be plant-based in order to have health benefits, is unknown. Nevertheless, plant-based food diets in society and between nutritionist circles are linked to health and longevity, as well as contributing to lowering cholesterol, weight loss, and, in some cases, stress reduction.
Although a number of preconceptions of a healthy diet center around plant-based foods, the majority of assumptions about foods which are usually thought of as "bad" foods are usually correct, apart from the assumption that there are "bad" foods; many people associate dishes such as Full English cooked Breakfast and Bacon Sandwiches as foods which, if eaten regularly, can contribute to cholesterol, fat, and heart problems.
Definition
A healthy diet is usually defined as a diet in which nutrient intake is maintained, and cholesterol, salt, sugar, and fat are reduced. The idea of a healthy diet is something used by a government to ensure that people are well "protected" against common illnesses and conditions which stem from poor diet. This could include headaches, lessened sexual drive, heart disease, alcohol poisoning, or obesity.
A healthy diet is a way of eating that reduces risk for complications such as heart disease and stroke. Healthy eating includes eating a wide variety of foods including: •vegetables •whole grains •fruits •non-fat dairy products •beans •lean meats •poultry •fish
The definition of a healthy diet is sometimes also thought of as a diet which will combat or prevent illness. Although the majority of people would support this definition, few know why, other than because "bad" foods are not consumed. People with healthy diets are less likely to succumb to common minor illnesses, such as lesser forms of Influenza, mainly because consumption of a healthy diet would provide ample nutrients and energy for the body, so as to help stave off such illnesses. Similarly, the healthy diet can also be used this way to aid the body during illness. The myth of "feed a cold, starve a fever" is a common misconception among the public, particularly in the United Kingdom. This is a myth in every sense of the word because providing the body with nutrients during illness is actually beneficial - nutrient and energy stores would be replenished, allowing for more energy to be used by the body to combat illness.
The importance at present of a Healthy diet is something which is actually receiving many promotions throughout several countries due to obesity epidemics. Governments, particularly in the United Kingdom, through the advice of the Department of Health, introduced a public health white paper to parliament, CM 6374, which aimed to deal with the issues presented by particularly imported culture - cigarettes, alcohol and fast food all being produced in their majority in the United States, or by US-based companies.
Read more...




edit 
Selected biochemistry article


Cholesterol

Cholesterol is a steroid, a lipid, and an alcohol, found in the cell membranes of all body tissues, and transported in the blood plasma of all animals. Most cholesterol is not dietary in origin, it is synthesized internally. Cholesterol is present in higher concentrations in tissues which either produce more or have more densely-packed membranes, for example, the liver, spinal cord, brain and atheroma. Cholesterol plays a central role in many biochemical processes, but is best known for the association of cardiovascular disease with various lipoprotein cholesterol transport patterns in the blood.
The name originates from the Greek chole- (bile) and stereos (solid), as researchers first identified cholesterol (C27H45OH) in solid form in gallstones.
Read more...




edit 
Reference links



Health category on dmoz. Contains sub-categories about nutrition, fitness, …
World Health Organization
USA Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
UK National Health Service News







edit 
Health and fitness news

Wikinews health portal


January 28: Anti-abortion March for Life draws thousands in Washington, D.C.
January 27: Protesters dance for gay rights, health care at Philadelphia 'Queer Rager'
January 20: Germany legalises medical use of cannabis
January 14: Late-night vote sets Obamacare up for filibuster-free repeal

Ongoing health news

Avian influenza
Health News Collection





edit 
Quotes


“Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.”

— Mark Twain

"The more you sweat in training, the less you bleed in battle."

- Navy SEALs

"He who has health has hope, and he who has hope has everything." [Arabian Proverb]
“Human life needs superhuman health.”

- Leonid S. Sukhorukov

"An apple a day keeps the doctor away."
"No pain, no gain."
"Do not spend health to gain money, and then, do not spend money to regain health"
" Honour your Divine Body Temple"

- Fitness Guru Derek Duke Noble

"To sit in a comfortable position or posture for everlasting period is called asana"

- BirenDra ShaH

Health is very important for our life [kailash vishwakarma]





edit 
Selected biography



Linus Carl Pauling (February 28, 1901 – August 19, 1994) was an American quantum chemist and biochemist, widely regarded as the premier chemist of the twentieth century. Pauling was a pioneer in the application of quantum mechanics to chemistry, and in 1954 was awarded the Nobel Prize in chemistry for his work describing the nature of chemical bonds. He also made important contributions to crystal and protein structure determination, and was one of the founders of molecular biology. Pauling received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962 for his campaign against above-ground nuclear testing, becoming only one of four people in history to individually receive two Nobel Prizes. Later in life, he became an advocate for regular consumption of massive doses of Vitamin C. Pauling coined the term "orthomolecular" to refer to the practice of varying the concentration of substances normally present in the body to prevent and treat disease, and promote health.
Pauling was first introduced to the concept of high-dose vitamin C by biochemist Irwin Stone in 1966 and began taking several grams every day to prevent colds. Excited by the results, he researched the clinical literature and published "Vitamin C and the Common Cold" in 1970. He began a long clinical collaboration with the British cancer surgeon, Ewan Cameron, MD [1] in 1971 on the use of intravenous and oral vitamin C as cancer therapy for terminal patients. Cameron and Pauling wrote many technical papers and a popular book, "Cancer and Vitamin C", that discussed their observations. He later collaborated with the Canadian physician, Abram Hoffer, MD, PhD,[2] on a micronutrient regimen, including high-dose vitamin C, as adjunctive cancer therapy.
The selective toxicity of vitamin C for cancer cells has been demonstrated repeatedly in cell culture studies. The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences [3] recently published a paper demonstrating vitamin C killing cancer cells. As of 2005, some physicians have called for a more careful reassessment of vitamin C, especially intravenous vitamin C, in cancer treatment.
With two colleagues, Pauling founded the Institute of Orthomolecular Medicine in Menlo Park, California, in 1973, which was soon renamed the Linus Pauling Institute of Science and Medicine. Pauling directed research on vitamin C, but also continued his theoretical work in chemistry and physics until his death in 1994. In his last years, he became especially interested in the possible role of vitamin C in preventing atherosclerosis and published three case reports on the use of lysine and vitamin C to relieve angina pectoris. In 1996, the Linus Pauling Institute moved from Palo Alto, California, to Corvallis, Oregon, to become part of Oregon State University, where it continues to conduct research on micronutrients, phytochemicals (chemicals from plants), and other constituents of the diet in preventing and treating disease.




edit 
WikiProjects



Health WikiProject
Drug WikiProject
Nursing WikiProject
WikiProject on Alternative Medicine





edit 
Things you can do



Improve the see also reference sections in health articles
Check the related topic lists for completeness
Help change the articles on this portal at the beginning of each month







edit 
Topics   (all)


Main articles: Health, Self-care, and Health science
General  – Health care • Health care industry • Health disparities • Mental health • Population health • Preventive medicine • Public health • Complementary and alternative medicine
Self-care – Body composition • Life extension • Longevity • Physical fitness

Nutrition – Calorie restriction • Dietary supplements (Amino acids, Minerals, Nootropics, Nutrients, Vitamins) • Diet (nutrition) • Dieting • Healthy eating pyramid.


Physical exercise – Stretching • Overtraining • Aerobic exercise • Anaerobic exercise • Sport • Walking


Hygiene – Cleanliness • Oral hygiene • Occupational hygiene

Health science – Dentistry • Occupational therapy • Optometry • Pharmacy • Physiotherapy • Speech-Language Pathology

Medicine – Midwifery • Nursing • Veterinary medicine• Dentistry • Holistic Medicine




Human medicine – Cardiology • Dermatology • Emergency medicine • Endocrinology and Diabetology • Epidemiology • Geriatrics • Hematology • Internal medicine • Nephrology • Neurology • Oncology • Pathology • Pediatrics • Psychiatry • Rheumatology • Surgery • Urology




Illness  – Aging • Alcoholism • Atrophy • Deficiency disease • Depression • Disease • Disorders (types) • Drug abuse • Eating disorder • Foodborne illness • Malnutrition • Obesity • Smoking





edit 
Lists of basic topics   (all)



See also: Biology (below)

Health – Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. this is a level of functional and (or) metabolic efficiency of a person in mind, body and spirit; being free from illness, injury or pain (as in “good health” or “healthy”). The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as "a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity."

Death – cessation of life. Zero health.
Exercise – any bodily activity that enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness. It is performed for various reasons including strengthening muscles and the cardiovascular system, honing athletic skills, weight loss or maintenance, and mental health including the prevention of depression. Frequent and regular physical exercise boosts the immune system, and helps prevent the "diseases of affluence" such as heart disease, cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity.
Nutrition – provision, to cells and organisms, of the materials necessary (in the form of food) to support life.
Life extension – The study of slowing down or reversing the processes of aging to extend both the maximum and average lifespan.
Healthcare science – all the sciences related to the overall improvement of physical well-being of humans.
Medicine – science and art of healing. It encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness.

Anesthesia – a way to control pain during a surgery or procedure by using medicine called anesthetics.
Clinical research
Diabetes – a group of metabolic diseases in which the person has high blood glucose (blood sugar) above 200mg/dl, either because insulin production is inadequate, or because the body's cells do not respond properly to insulin, or both.
Dentistry – branch of medicine that is involved in the study, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders and conditions of the mouth, maxillofacial area and the adjacent and associated structures (teeth) and their impact on the human body.
Emergency medicine – medical specialty involving care for undifferentiated, unscheduled patients with acute illnesses or injuries that require immediate medical attention. Emergency physicians undertake acute investigations and interventions to resuscitate and stabilize patients.
Obstetrics – medical specialty dealing with the care of all women's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy (prenatal period), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Trauma & Orthopedics – medical specialty dealing with bones, joints and operative management of trauma.
Psychiatry – medical specialty devoted to the study and treatment of mental disorders. These mental disorders include various affective, behavioural, cognitive and perceptual abnormalities.

Autism a mental condition, present from early childhood, characterized by great difficulty in communicating and forming relationships with other people and in using language and abstract concepts.
Psychiatric survivors movement –









edit 
Lists of topics   (all)



Medicine
Acronyms in healthcare • Abbreviations  (for medical organizations and personnel) • Alternative medicine • Pharmaceutical Drugs • Psychiatric drugs (by condition treated) • Psychotherapies • Reference ranges for common blood tests • Surgical procedures • Symptoms


Diseases
Genetic disorders • Infectious diseases • Mental illnesses • Notifiable diseases • Neurological disorders • List of DSM-IV codes


Nutrition
Antioxidants in food • B vitamins • Diets • Food additives (Codex Alimentarius) • Foods • Fruit • Herbs and spices • Macronutrients • Meat • Micronutrients • Nootropics (smart drugs) • Poor nutrition • Sandwiches • Seafood • Seeds • Vegetables





edit 
Glossaries   (all)




Alternative medicine
Anatomy

Location
Motion


Communication disorders
Diabetes
Acronyms in healthcare
Medical terminology

Roots, suffixes and prefixes
Medical slang
Abbreviations
Prescription abbreviations


Psychiatry
Clinical research






edit 
Related portals   (all)


Health and fitness

Medicine • Biology • Nursing • Dentistry • Food • Pharmacy and Pharmacology • Psychiatry • Pervasive developmental disorders • Complementary and Alternative Medicine • Sexuality • Viruses • Trauma & Orthopaedics • Sports






edit 
Categories



Main categories: Health, Self care, and Healthcare occupations



Self care
Health promotion
Life extension
Prevention
Sexual health
Sleep
Skin Care




Nutrition
Dietary supplements
Dietetics
Nutrients

Amino acids
Minerals
Nootropics
Phytochemicals
Vitamins


Nutritional advice pyramids




Exercise
Aerobics
Bodyweight exercise (Calisthenics)
Cycling
Exercise equipment
Exercise instructors
Dancing
Exercise physiology
Hiking
Pilates
Running
Sports
Swimming
T'ai Chi Ch'uan
Walking
Weight training

exercises


Yoga




Hygiene
Cleaning
Oral hygiene




Positive psychology
Mental health
Psychotherapy




Public health
Health by country
Healthcare
Health law
Health promotion
Health standards
Hospitals
Occupational safety and health
Pharmaceutical industry
Pharmaceuticals policy
Safety




Health science
Clinical research
Diseases
Epidemiology
Midwifery
Nursing
Nutrition
Optometry
Pharmacy
Public health




Medicine




Human medicine
Alternative medicine
Cardiology
Endocrinology
Forensics
Gastroenterology
Human Genetics
Geriatrics
Gerontology
Gynecology
Hematology
Nephrology
Neurology
Obstetrics
Oncology
Ophthalmology
Orthopedic surgical procedures
Pathology
Pediatrics
Psychiatry
Rheumatology
Surgery
Urology




Dentistry
Dental hygiene
Orthodontics




Veterinary medicine







edit 
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species









Wikipedia's Portals

All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology



Featured portals
About portals


Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Health_and_fitness&oldid=755861916"					
Categories: HealthHealth science portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikisource 



Languages


မြန်မာဘာသာ日本語Norsk bokmålPortuguêsSvenskaاردو 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 20 December 2016, at 16:33.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.152","walltime":"0.208","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1996,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":100058,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":23030,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  114.574      1 -total"," 37.94%   43.475      1 Template:Portal_navbar_with_header_2"," 33.06%   37.874      2 Template:Center"," 32.89%   37.678      2 Template:Small"," 30.03%   34.412     19 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 17.13%   19.628      1 Template:Portal_content_pages_(header_bar_2)"," 16.72%   19.162      1 Portal:Contents/Overview/Health_and_fitness"," 14.68%   16.822      1 Template:Main","  9.75%   11.166     19 Template:Font_color","  5.84%    6.688     17 Portal:Health_and_fitness/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.021","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1438501,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1257","timestamp":"20170130012657","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":96,"wgHostname":"mw1209"});});
