 






Portal:Radio

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Radio Portal




Welcome to Wikipedia's portal for Radio.
Radio is the wireless transmission of signals, by modulation of electromagnetic waves with frequencies below those of visible light.
Electromagnetic radiation travels via oscillating electromagnetic fields that pass through the air and the vacuum of space. It does not require a medium of transport. Information is carried by systematically changing (modulating) some property of the radiated waves, such as their amplitude or their frequency. When radio waves pass an electrical conductor, the oscillating fields induce an alternating current in the conductor.
The word 'radio' is used to describe this phenomenon, and television, radio, and cell phone transmissions are all classified as radio frequency emissions.
Modulation is the process where speech, music and the like are impressed onto the carrier wave of a transmission. Detection or demodulation is the reverse process which takes place in a receiver. The speech, music etc. is recovered and may then be amplified and applied to an ear piece or a loud speaker. The most common forms of modulation are Amplitude Modulation (AM) and Frequency Modulation (FM) both of which use different modulation and detection circuits. Cell phones, digital radio and digital television use more complex modulation and demodulation systems.
The simplest AM receiver is the Crystal Set or Crystal Radio. Demodulation is achieved by a semiconductor diode. One of the earliest forms of detection consisted of a thin copper wire in contact with a small chunk of Galena Rock. Adequate signals could be heard in headphones for up to 50 km with simple arrangements.




View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible electromagnetic radiation. Also, the "electromagnetic spectrum" (usually just spectrum) of an object is the range of electromagnetic radiation that it emits, reflects, or transmits.
The electromagnetic spectrum, extends from the frequencies used in electric power grids (at the long-wavelength end) to gamma radiation (at the short-wavelength end), covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometres down to fractions of the size of an atom. It is commonly said that EM waves beyond these limits are uncommon, although this is not actually true. The 22-year sunspot cycle, for instance, produces radiation with a period of 22 years, or a frequency of 1.4*10−9 Hz. At the other extreme, photons of arbitrarily high frequency may be produced by colliding electrons with positrons at appropriate energy. 1024 Hz photons can be produced today with man-made accelerators. In our universe the short wavelength limit is likely to be the Planck length, and the long wavelength limit is the size of the universe itself (see physical cosmology), though in principle the spectrum is infinite.
Archives - Read more...








edit  
Selected image






This photograph shows the receivers and transceivers used in an amateur radio station. Amateur radio is a hobby in which enthusiasts purchase or build their own equipment and use radio for their own enjoyment. Radio amateurs are licensed to use frequencies in a large number of narrow bands throughout the radio spectrum. Photo Credit: User:NX1Z

Archives - Read more...



edit  
Selected station


BBC Radio 2 is one of the BBC's national radio stations and is the most popular station in the UK. It broadcasts throughout the UK on FM radio between 88 and 91 MHz from its studios in Western House, adjacent to Broadcasting House in central London. Programmes are also relayed on DAB, Sky Digital, Cable TV, Freeview and the Internet.
The station started at 7:00am on September 30, 1967, and succeeded the Light Programme, with some of the Light's music shows transferring to the newly-launched Radio 1. The first show however had actually started at 5.30am (on the Light programme) but continued on with Breakfast Special from Paul Hollingdale as Radio 1 split off.
Archives - Read more...








edit  
Categories


The following are categories relating to radio:
Radio by country • Radio networks • Radio formats • Radio stations • Radio people • Radio programs • History of radio • Radio drama • Amateur radio • Pirate radio • Types of radios • Radio technology • Radio frequency receivers • Radio hobbies • Radio logos • Radio writers • Years in radio • Military radio systems • Radio astronomy • SETI • Radio-related lists • Radio stubs




edit  
Radio lists


The following are lists relating to radio:
97.3 FM • 105.9 FM • BBC Radio 4 programmes • Dad's Army radio episodes • Fictional radio stations • FM broadcasting in Egypt • High school radio • Indie radio stations • Q92 • Q107 • Radio Stations of the BBC • Reith Lecture • Sirius Satellite Radio stations • This American Life episodes • UK radio programmes • World's oldest radio stations • XM Satellite Radio channels • Z103 • AOL Radio • Angel Radio • List of radio stations in Kosovo • WBBM (AM)






edit  
Selected quote




“
It's not true that I had nothing on. I had the radio on.
”


— Marilyn Monroe
Archives








edit  
Selected biography


Fred Allen (born John Florence Sullivan on May 31, 1894 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, died March 17, 1956 in New York City) was an American comedian whose absurdist, pointed radio show (1934–1949) made him one of the most popular and forward-looking humorists in the so-called classic era of American radio.
His best-remembered gag may be his long-running mock feud with friend and fellow comedian Jack Benny. Allen has been considered one of the more accomplished, daring and relevant humorists of his time. A master ad libber, he constantly battled censorship and developed routines the style and substance of which influenced future comic talents. Perhaps more than any of his generation, Fred Allen wielded influence that outlived both his contemporaries and the medium that made him famous.
Archives - Read more...








edit  
Related portals
















Television
Film














Technology
Electronics






edit  
WikiProjects



Radio December 12, 2006 "...to create, expand, and maintain wikipedia articles related to radio, including radio propagation and reception, radio programming, radio personalities, and the business of radio." (Example: Mutual Broadcasting System)
Amateur Radio August 24, 2006 "...to improve Wikipedia's articles related to Amateur radio, maintain the amateur radio category and its sub-categories for clean organization, and to produce and maintain templates for Amateur radio-related topic identification." (Example: Amateur radio)
Radio Stations February 15, 2005 "...to coordinate the activities of creating and maintaining articles about radio stations." (Example: KCBS-FM)
Podcasting January 21, 2007 "...to make Wikipedia's knowledge of notable Podcast and podcast-related information as complete as possible." (Example: Podcast)








edit  
Radio topics




Formats
Music radio, Old-time radio, Radio comedy, Radio documentary, Radio drama, Top 40


Networks
BBC Radio, Blue Network, Columbia Broadcasting System, Mutual Broadcasting System, National Broadcasting Company, Sirius Satellite Radio, XM Satellite Radio


People
Fred Allen, Gracie Allen, Don Ameche, Jack Benny, Edgar Bergen, Jagadish Chandra Bose, George Burns, Ronald Colman, Jim Connors, Frank Conrad, Norman Corwin, Alice Faye, Stan Freberg, Phil Harris, Bob Hope, Spike Jones, Hans von Kaltenborn, Kay Kyser, Frances Langford, Guglielmo Marconi, Elizabeth McLeod, J. Carrol Naish, Ozzie Nelson, Arch Oboler, Dorothy Parker, Virginia Payne, Harold Peary, David Sarnoff, Red Skelton, Kate Smith, Howard Stern, Nikola Tesla, Lurene Tuttle, Rudy Vallée, Fred Waring, Orson Welles


Shows
Abbott and Costello, Amos 'n' Andy, Arch Oboler's Plays, Burns and Allen, Cavalcade of America, CBS Radio Mystery Theater, Dragnet, Duffy's Tavern, Fibber McGee and Molly, The Goldbergs, The Howard Stern Show, Inner Sanctum Mysteries, The Jack Benny Program, Life with Luigi, Lights Out, Lux Radio Theater, Opie and Anthony, The Archers, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, The Phil Harris-Alice Faye Show, Quiz Kids, The Screen Guild Theater, The Shadow, Suspense, Theater Guild on the Air, Twenty Questions, The Whistler, Yours Truly, Johnny Dollar


Technology
Amateur radio, AM broadcasting, FM broadcasting, International broadcasting, Internet Radio, Digital Radio Mondiale, HD Radio, Digital Audio Broadcasting and GNU Radio, Software-defined radio, Transistor radio, Vacuum tube
Top 40



Industry
radio promotion








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Radio&oldid=649229484"					
Categories: RadioWikiProject RadioTechnology portalsEntertainment portalsElectronicsCommunication 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschFrançaisItaliano日本語PortuguêsТатарча/tatarça 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:07.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.148","walltime":"0.387","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1501,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":70681,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5606,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  309.006      1 -total"," 54.95%  169.813      5 Template:Random_portal_component","  8.46%   26.142      7 Portal:Radio/box-header","  7.11%   21.985      1 Portal:Radio/Selected_station/Layout","  6.41%   19.821      1 Portal:Radio/Selected_quote/Layout","  5.69%   17.588      1 Template:Purge","  5.42%   16.757      1 Portal:Radio/Related_portals","  5.25%   16.215      1 Portal:Radio/Selected_article/Layout","  5.13%   15.841      1 Portal:Radio/Categories","  4.80%   14.828      1 Portal:Radio/WikiProjects"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.047","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":869051,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1212","timestamp":"20170206230750","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":605,"wgHostname":"mw1212"});});
