 






Portal:Software

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Software Portal



Software is a program that enables a computer to perform a specific task, as opposed to the physical components of the system (hardware). This includes application software such as a word processor, which enables a user to perform a task, and system software such as an operating system, which enables other software to run properly, by interfacing with hardware and with other software. Software also acts as an interface between the hardware like processor(s) and user(s).
More about software...





View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article




The Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a non-profit corporation founded by Richard Stallman on 4 October 1985 to support the free software movement, a copyleft-based movement which aims to promote the universal freedom to create, distribute and modify computer software. The FSF is incorporated in Massachusetts, USA.[1]
From its founding until the mid-1990s, FSF's funds were mostly used to employ software developers to write free software for the GNU Project. Since the mid-1990s, the FSF's employees and volunteers have mostly worked on legal and structural issues for the free software movement and the free software community.
Consistent with its goals, only free software is used on FSF's computers.[2]



More selected articles...
Read more...




edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Papa November
Ubuntu Software Center is a computer program for browsing, installing and removing software on the Ubuntu operating system, a computer operating system based on the Debian distribution and distributed as free and open source software.

More selected pictures... Read more...



edit  
Selected biography






Linus Torvalds (born December 28, 1969 in Helsinki, Finland) is a Finnish software engineer and hacker, best known for having initiated the development of the open source Linux kernel. He later became the chief architect of the Linux kernel, and now acts as the project's coordinator. He also created the revision control system Git.
After a visit to Transmeta in late 1996, Torvalds accepted a position at the company in California, where he would work from February 1997 to June 2003. He then moved to the Open Source Development Labs, which has since merged with the Free Standards Group to become the Linux Foundation, under whose auspices he continues to work. In June 2004, Torvalds and his family moved to Portland, Oregon, to be closer to the OSDL's Beaverton, Oregon–based headquarters.
From 1997 to 1999, he was involved in 86open helping to choose the standard binary format for Linux and Unix. In 1999, he was named to the MIT Technology Review TR100 as one of the top 100 innovators in the world under the age of 35.
Red Hat and VA Linux, both leading developers of Linux-based software, presented Torvalds with stock options in gratitude for his creation. In 1999, both companies went public and Torvalds' share value temporarily shot up to roughly $20 million.
His personal mascot is a penguin nicknamed Tux, which has been widely adopted by the Linux community as the mascot of the Linux kernel.



More selected biographies…
Read more…




edit  
Related portals





Apple Inc.



Computer programming



Computer Science



Engineering



Free software



Google



Information technology



Internet



Linux



Amiga



Microsoft



Software Testing



Technology








edit  
Software news


From the Wikinews Software category


November 4: Volkswagen emissions scandal may affect thousands more cars
September 22: Volkswagen engulfed by diesel emissions scandal
January 6: Wikinews interviews on contributions to open-source: Opera
April 8: Microsoft to release patches for 64 security flaws on Tuesday
March 23: Petition urges Apple to remove 'anti-gay' app
March 18: Microsoft releases Internet Explorer 9 browser
March 8: Microsoft waits for death of Internet Explorer 6
October 9: Wikinews interviews Ubuntu developer Fabrice
September 3: Microsoft releases Windows Phone 7 to manufacturing
June 8: Apple unveils iPhone 4, iOS 4 at Worldwide Developers Conference 2010


More software news on Wikinews



edit  
Selected quote




“
This existing base of FLOSS software represents a lower bound of about 131,000 real person-years of effort that has been devoted exclusively by programmers. As this is mostly by individuals not directly paid for development, it represents a significant gap in national accounts of productivity. Annualised and adjusted for growth this represents at least 800 million euros in voluntary contribution from programmers alone each year, of which nearly half are based in Europe.
”





Study on the: Economic impact of open source software on innovation and the competitiveness of the Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) sector in the EU.
(Note: FLOSS is an acronym for "free, libre and open source software".)







More selected quotes...






edit  
Did you know





...that BIOS software is built into personal computers, and is a type of system software?




Other "Did you know" facts...








edit  
Categories





▼ Software


► Software by company



► Software by license



► Software by operating system



► Software by programming language



► Software by library used



► Software by year



► Software comparisons



► Application software



► System software



► Web software



► Software add-ons



► Software appliances



► Software clones



► Console applications



► Criticisms of software and websites



► Custom software projects



► Customer communications management



► Data erasure software



► Database management systems



► Decision-making software



► Software development



► Software distribution



► DLL injection



► Emergency management software



► Software features



► Fictional software



► File archivers



► Hadoop cluster administration



► History of software



► Software industry



► Lists of software



► Location-based software



► Microcomputer software



► Mobile software



► Software patent law



► Peer-to-peer software



► Personal digital assistant software



► Political software



► Portable software



► Computer programming tools



► Project management software



► Software projects



► Provisioning



► Role-playing game software



► SCADA



► Security software



► Software engineering



► Streaming software



► User interfaces



► X Window programs



► Software covers



► Software logos



► Screenshots of software



► Software stubs



► Software company stubs



► Software type stubs



► Wikipedia categories named after software






Software is also part of the wider categories Computing and Computer Science.








edit  
Software topics








Shared meanings: system software, application software, computer programs
Computing
Computer programming

Programming languages
Text editors
Compilers
Algorithms
Software development process
Software development tools
Software maintenance
Software optimization
Application programming interface (API)
Software brittleness






Software engineering
Software licenses

Proprietary software
Free software
Open source software
Copyright infringement of software
Freeware
Shareware
Charityware
Donationware
Postcardware
Shovelware
Dual license
License Management






Software as a service
Software security assurance
Origins of computer terms
Uninstaller
Virtual instrumentation
List of open source software packages
Software industry












edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Verify : Business software •  Computer software •  Video editing software
Other : Improve Software articles in need of attention •  Add more content to this portal












edit  
WikiProjects





WikiProject Computing
WikiProject Software
WikiProject Free Software
WikiProject Apps
WikiProject Linux
WikiProject Desktop Linux








 
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database











 
References




^ "FREE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION, INC. Summary Screen". The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Secretary of the Commonwealth, Corporations Division. Retrieved 2009-04-06. 
^ Stallman, Richard M. (2002). "Linux, GNU, and freedom". Philosophy of the GNU Project. GNU Project. Retrieved 2006-12-10. 







What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Software&oldid=720817070"					
Categories: SoftwareSoftware portal 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikibooks 



Languages


العربيةCatalàDeutschEspañolFrançais日本語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 18 May 2016, at 03:24.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.360","walltime":"0.698","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2510,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":94591,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":8241,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  542.749      1 -total"," 49.11%  266.523      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 18.35%   99.610      1 Portal:Software/Related_portals"," 18.04%   97.896      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 14.54%   78.942     13 Template:Related_portal_item"," 13.25%   71.924     13 Template:Portal_image"," 10.55%   57.253      1 Template:Reflist","  9.17%   49.781      2 Template:Cite_web","  4.45%   24.158     14 Template:Box-header","  3.61%   19.614      9 Portal:Software/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.113","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2588998,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1189","timestamp":"20170205223831","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":74,"wgHostname":"mw1270"});});
