 







Portal:Television

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Television Portal



A television, commonly referred to as TV, telly or the tube, is a telecommunication medium used for transmitting sound with moving images in monochrome (black-and-white), or in colour, and in two or three dimensions. It can refer to a television set, a television program, or the medium of television transmission. Television is a mass medium, for entertainment, education, news and advertising.
Television became available in crude experimental forms in the late 1920s. After World War II, an improved form became popular in the United States and Britain, and television sets became commonplace in homes, businesses, and institutions. During the 1950s, television was the primary medium for influencing public opinion. In the mid-1960s, color broadcasting was introduced in the US and most other developed countries. The availability of storage media such as VHS tape (1976), DVDs (1997), and high-definition Blu-ray Discs (2006) enabled viewers to watch recorded material such as movies. At the end of the first decade of the 2000s, digital television transmissions greatly increased in popularity. Another development was the move from standard-definition television (SDTV) (576i, with 576 interlaced lines of resolution and 480i) to high-definition television (HDTV), which provides a resolution that is substantially higher. HDTV may be transmitted in various formats: 1080p, 1080i and 720p. Since 2010, with the invention of smart television, Internet television has increased the availability of television programs and movies via the Internet through services such as Netflix, iPlayer, Hulu, Roku and Chromecast.


More about television...







View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Featured article



"Confirmed Dead" is the second episode of the fourth season and seventy-first episode overall of the ABC's serial drama television series Lost. It was aired on ABC in the United States and on CTV in Canada on February 7, 2008. The episode was written by co-executive producer Drew Goddard and co-producer Brian K. Vaughan and directed by co-executive producer Stephen Williams. "Confirmed Dead" was watched by seventeen million Americans and received positive critical reception with reviewers praising the introductions of the new characters. The episode marks the first appearance of main characters Miles Straume (played by Ken Leung) and Charlotte Lewis (Rebecca Mader) and supporting character Frank Lapidus (Jeff Fahey). The actors were given fake scenes when auditioning to limit the leak of spoilers and each actor influenced their character's development. The narrative begins on December 21, 2004, ninety-one days after the crash of Oceanic Airlines Flight 815. Flashbacks introduce the four people from the offshore freighter 130 kilometers (81 mi) who land on the island. John Locke (Terry O'Quinn) leads his group to the Barracks and begins to find out why Ben Linus (Michael Emerson) is afraid of the island's latest arrivals.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Christian Allinger from Oberau, Deutschland



A satellite dish is a type of parabolic antenna designed with the specific purpose of transmitting signals to and/or receiving from satellites. A satellite dish is a particular type of microwave antenna. Satellite dishes come in varying sizes and designs, and are most commonly used to receive satellite television.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...




...that David Letterman parodied Werner Erhard in the 1978 Mork & Mindy episode Mork Goes Erk?


...that The O.C.'s music supervisor Alexandra Patsavas worked in the music department of over fifty Roger Corman B-movies before her television debut?


...that actress, writer and producer Michelle Paradise created the television series Exes and Ohs without an agent?


...that Robert Raymond founded Australia's longest running current affairs television program?


...that British television programmes including Cluedo and The Forsythe Saga were partly filmed at Arley Hall in Cheshire?





...Archive/Nominations



More...











edit  
News

Wikinews television portal


January 3: UK documentary claims fire weakened RMS Titanic
May 10: Political columnist apologises after mocking disabled broadcaster Andrew Marr
May 22: David Letterman signs off after 33 year career on the Late Show
April 3: Zayn Malik leaves pop band One Direction after five years


Upcoming events


Upcoming television series
Upcoming television episodes










edit  
Featured biography



Katherine Dee "KaDee" Strickland (born December 14, 1977) is an American actress. Well-known in her hometown of Patterson, Georgia when she was a child, she began acting during high school. Strickland studied the profession in Philadelphia and New York City, where she obtained mostly small roles in film, television and theater projects, among them The Sixth Sense (1999). Her participation in the 2003 Hollywood films Anything Else and Something's Gotta Give led to her receiving significant parts in the horror pictures Anacondas and The Grudge (both 2004). In the period they were released, Strickland was referred to as "the pride of Patterson" and the horror fandom's "newest scream queen", though her performances in both films received mixed critical reviews. In 2005, Strickland garnered positive critical comment for the romantic comedy Fever Pitch, and in 2007, she was a cast regular in the television shows The Wedding Bells and Private Practice. Strickland has spoken against the emphasis placed on beauty in the Los Angeles acting community, in which she says her Southern U.S. background has helped to distinguish her from other blonde-haired actors. She has spoken of an affinity for her strong female characters and a desire to avoid sexualizing or sensationalizing her presentation of herself as a woman.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Television


► Television lists



► Television by region



► Television by country



► Television by culture



► Television by language



► Television advertising



► Television characters



► Television companies



► Television events



► Television in fiction



► History of television



► Holography in television



► Television images



► Television music



► Television networks



► Television occupations



► Television organizations



► Pay television



► Television people



► Film and television podcasts



► Television programming



► Public television



► Quotations from film and television



► Television studies



► Television technology



► Television fandom



► Television terminology



► Television videos and DVDs



► Television websites



► Works about television



► Television templates



► Television stubs













edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Television}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.
Write: Possible Possum
Cleanup: color television, Alien Nation: Body and Soul, The Sopranos, Alien Nation: Dark Horizon, Alien Nation: The Enemy Within, Alien Nation: Millennium, Aang
Expand: Timeline of the introduction of color television in countries
Stubs: Flow (television), Just for Kicks (TV series), Play of the Month, Nova (Dutch TV series), More stubs...









edit  
WikiProjects





You are invited to participate in WikiProject Television, a WikiProject dedicated to developing and improving articles about Television.



Main projects

Entertainment • Television • Episode coverage


Sub-projects

Television Stations • American animation • American television • Australian television • British TV • BBC • Canadian TV shows • Television Game Shows • ITC Entertainment Productions • Digimon Systems Update • Buffy • Doctor Who • Degrassi • EastEnders • Firefly • Futurama • Grey's Anatomy • Indian television • Lost • Nickelodeon • The O.C. • Professional Wrestling • The Simpsons • Seinfeld • South Park • Stargate • Star Trek • Star Wars • Soap Operas • Avatar: The Last Airbender • House

Related projects

Animation • Anime and manga • Comedy • Comics • Fictional characters • Film • Media franchises

What are WikiProjects?









edit  
Selected quote







I find television very educating. Every time somebody turns on the set, I go into the other room and read a book.
— Groucho Marx







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 200 (Stargate SG-1)
 Abyssinia, Henry
 The Adventures of Brisco County, Jr.
 All Hell Breaks Loose (Supernatural)
 All things
 The American Bible Challenge
 Animaniacs
 Aquaman (TV pilot)
 The Beginning of the End (Lost)
 Blue's Clues
 The Body (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)
 The Boys from Baghdad High
 Cape Feare
 Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons
 Carnivàle
 Cartman Gets an Anal Probe
 Characters of Carnivàle
 The City of New York vs. Homer Simpson
 Cold Feet
 Confirmed Dead
 Bradley Cooper
 Damien (South Park)
 Dark Angel (TV series)
 Deadalive
 Death on the Rock
 Deep Throat (The X-Files episode)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation
 Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?
 Doctor Who missing episodes
 Doomsday (Doctor Who)
 Ed, Edd n Eddy
 Episode 2 (Twin Peaks)
 Episode 14 (Twin Peaks)
 Firefly (TV series)
 Format of Sesame Street
 George Formby
 Pauline Fowler
 Fresh Blood (Supernatural)
 From The Doctor to my son Thomas
 Gender Bender (The X-Files)
 Give Peace a Chance (Grey's Anatomy)
 Goodbyeee
 Greatest Hits (Lost)
 Chad Harris-Crane
 Sadie Harris
 Hell Is Other Robots
 History of Sesame Street
 Home (The X-Files)
 Homer's Enemy
 Homer's Phobia
 Homicide: Life on the Street (season 1)
 Homicide: Life on the Street (season 2)
 Kenneth Horne
 Horrible Histories (2009 TV series)
 House (TV series)
 Ice (The X-Files)
 Interactions (The Spectacular Spider-Man)
 Michael Jackson
 Peter Jennings
 Joking Apart
 The Joy of Sect
 Kampung Boy (TV series)
 Martin Keamy
 Last Gasp (Inside No. 9)
 Last of the Summer Wine
 The Last Temptation of Krust
 John Le Mesurier
 Lisa the Skeptic
 Lisa the Vegetarian
 Love, Inc. (TV series)
 Making Waves (TV series)
 The Man Trap
 Todd Manning
 Meerkat Manor
 Meerkat Manor: The Story Begins
 Meet Kevin Johnson
 Mind Meld
 Mother and Child Reunion (Degrassi: The Next Generation)
 Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo
 Nightswimming (Awake)
 No Rest for the Wicked (Supernatural)
 No Such Thing as Vampires
 North by North Quahog
 Once More, with Feeling (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)
 The Other Woman (Lost)
 Our Friends in the North
 Over There (Fringe)
 Paramount Television Network
 Parks and Recreation (season 1)
 Partners in Crime (Doctor Who)
 Pilot (House)
 Pilot (Parks and Recreation)
 Pilot (Smallville)
 Pilot (Supernatural)
 Pokémon Channel
 The Post-Modern Prometheus
 The Power of Nightmares
 Premiere (The O.C.)
 Press Gang
 Quatermass and the Pit
 Bernard Quatermass
 The Quatermass Experiment
 Quatermass II
 A Quiet Night In
 The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest
 Rejoined
 Road to the Multiverse
 A Rugrats Chanukah
 Russell family (Passions)
 Sardines (Inside No. 9)
 Say Hello to My Little Friend
 Sesame Street
 Sesame Street international co-productions
 Sesame Street research
 Sesame Workshop
 The Shape of Things to Come (Lost)
 Bart Simpson
 Homer Simpson
 The Simpsons
 Sisters at Heart
 The Sixth Extinction II: Amor Fati
 Red Skelton
 Smallville (season 1)
 Aaron Sorkin
 South Park (season 13)
 Space Seed
 Squeeze (The X-Files)
 Jo Stafford
 Stark Raving Dad
 Starvin' Marvin (South Park)
 The Stolen Earth
 A Streetcar Named Marge
 Subway (Homicide: Life on the Street)
 Supernatural (season 2)
 Supernatural (season 1)
 Temperatures Rising
 Terms of Endearment (The X-Files)
 These Are the Voyages...
 Through the Looking Glass (Lost)
 Thunderbirds (TV series)
 Trapped in the Closet (South Park)
 Treehouse of Horror
 Triangle (The X-Files)
 Michael Tritter
 The Truth (The X-Files)
 The Turn of the Screw (2009 film)
 The Unnatural (The X-Files)
 Volcano (South Park)
 Weight Gain 4000
 What Is and What Should Never Be (Supernatural)
 The Wire
 X-Cops (The X-Files)
 Yesterday's Enterprise
 You Only Move Twice


Featured lists


 30 Rock (season 1)
 30 Rock (season 2)
 30 Rock (season 3)
 30 Rock (season 4)
 40th Daytime Emmy Awards
 List of The Adventures of Mini-Goddess episodes
 List of The Apprentice (U.S.) candidates
 List of Avatar: The Last Airbender episodes
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 1)
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 2)
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 3)
 BBC Young Musician of the Year
 Bernard Lee on stage and screen
 List of awards and nominations received by The Bill
 List of Black Lagoon episodes
 Bleach (season 1)
 Bleach (season 2)
 Bleach (season 3)
 Bleach (season 4)
 Bleach (season 5)
 Bleach (season 6)
 Bleach (season 7)
 Bleach (season 8)
 Bleach (season 9)
 Bleach (season 10)
 Blue Heelers (season 13)
 List of Brotherhood episodes
 Ian Carmichael on stage, screen and radio
 List of Carnivàle episodes
 Carry On series on screen and stage
 List of Dad's Army episodes
 List of Dancing with the Stars (U.S.) competitors
 David Niven on screen, stage, radio, record and in print
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actor in a Drama Series
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series Directing Team
 Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actress in a Drama Series
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 1)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 2)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 3)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 4)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 5)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 6)
 Degrassi: The Next Generation (season 7)
 Desperate Housewives (season 1)
 Shannen Doherty filmography
 List of Family Guy cast members
 Family Guy (season 1)
 Family Guy (season 5)
 Family Guy (season 8)
 Works of Keith Floyd
 List of Game of Thrones episodes
 Game of Thrones (season 1)
 George Formby on screen, stage, record and radio
 Glee (season 1)
 Green Wing (series 1)
 List of Gunsmoke television episodes
 Hattie Jacques on stage, radio, screen and record
 List of Heroes episodes
 List of Highlander: The Raven episodes
 Highlander: The Series (season 1)
 Highlander: The Series (season 2)
 How I Met Your Mother (season 1)
 John Gielgud, roles and awards
 John Le Mesurier on stage, radio, screen and record
 Justin Timberlake videography
 Lady Gaga videography
 Laurence Olivier on stage and screen
 List of Adventure Time episodes
 List of Awake episodes
 List of awards and nominations received by 30 Rock
 List of awards and nominations received by The Simpsons
 List of Blue Drop: Tenshitachi no Gikyoku episodes
 List of Claymore episodes
 List of Devil May Cry episodes
 List of Dexter episodes
 List of Ed, Edd n Eddy episodes
 List of Fate/stay night episodes
 List of Meerkat Manor episodes
 List of Millennium episodes
 List of Rental Magica episodes
 List of Seinfeld episodes
 List of The Office (UK TV series) episodes
 List of The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror episodes
 List of Tsukihime, Lunar Legend episodes
 List of Twin Peaks episodes
 List of Vampire Knight episodes
 List of Veronica Mars episodes
 List of 24 episodes
 List of Arrested Development episodes
 List of Baccano! episodes
 List of Bleach episodes
 List of Blue Peter presenters
 List of Buso Renkin episodes
 List of Call the Midwife episodes
 List of Celebrity Big Brother housemates
 List of Chartjackers episodes
 List of D.Gray-man episodes
 List of Degrassi: The Next Generation episodes
 List of Doctor Who serials
 List of Family Guy episodes
 List of Grey's Anatomy cast members
 List of Grey's Anatomy episodes
 List of Gunslinger Girl episodes
 List of Hitohira episodes
 List of Joking Apart episodes
 List of Kashimashi: Girl Meets Girl episodes
 List of Kaze no Stigma episodes
 List of Marvel Cinematic Universe television series
 List of Night Wizard episodes
 List of Popotan episodes
 List of Project Runway contestants
 List of QI episodes
 List of Samurai Harem: Asu no Yoichi episodes
 List of SpongeBob SquarePants episodes
 List of Survivor (U.S. TV series) contestants
 List of The Bellflower Bunnies episodes
 List of The Office (U.S. TV series) episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes (seasons 1–20)
 List of Tokyo Mew Mew episodes
 List of True Tears episodes
 List of awards and nominations received by American Horror Story
 List of awards and nominations received by Arrested Development
 List of awards and nominations received by Louie
 List of awards and nominations received by Parks and Recreation
 List of awards and nominations received by Psych
 List of awards and nominations received by The Vampire Diaries
 List of awards and nominations received by The Voice (U.S. TV series)
 List of songs in Glee (season 1)
 List of Lost episodes
 Lost (season 1)
 Lost (season 2)
 Lost (season 3)
 Lost (season 4)
 List of M*A*S*H episodes
 List of Meerkat Manor meerkats
 List of accolades received by Miami Vice
 List of Moonlight episodes
 List of Moonlighting episodes
 List of Myself ; Yourself episodes
 List of Numbers episodes
 List of The O.C. episodes
 The O.C. (season 1)
 The O.C. (season 2)
 The O.C. (season 3)
 The O.C. (season 4)
 The Office (U.S. season 1)
 The Office (U.S. season 2)
 The Office (U.S. season 3)
 The Office (U.S. season 4)
 The Office (U.S. season 8)
 List of Oh My Goddess! episodes
 List of One Piece episodes (season 5)
 List of Peep Show episodes
 List of awards and nominations received by Penn & Teller: Bullshit!
 Katy Perry videography
 Pop Idol discography
 List of Press Gang episodes
 Prison Break (season 2)
 Ralph Richardson, roles and awards
 The Real Housewives of Atlanta (season 6)
 List of Regular Show episodes
 Rihanna videography
 Gene Roddenberry filmography
 List of awards and nominations received by Gene Roddenberry
 Seinfeld (season 2)
 Seinfeld (season 3)
 List of The Simpsons cast members
 The Simpsons shorts
 The Simpsons (season 1)
 The Simpsons (season 2)
 The Simpsons (season 3)
 The Simpsons (season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 5)
 The Simpsons (season 6)
 The Simpsons (season 7)
 The Simpsons (season 8)
 The Simpsons (season 9)
 The Simpsons (season 10)
 The Simpsons (season 13)
 The Simpsons (season 14)
 List of Smallville episodes
 List of SpongeBob SquarePants guest stars
 List of Supernatural episodes
 Taylor Swift videography
 Terry-Thomas on screen, radio, stage and record
 List of The X-Files episodes
 List of Trinity Blood episodes
 List of The Unit episodes
 List of unmade Doctor Who serials and films
 Veronica Mars (season 1)
 Veronica Mars (season 2)
 Veronica Mars (season 3)
 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance


Featured topics


 Seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender
 Seasons of Veronica Mars
 Smallville (season 1)


Good topics


 Characters of Smallville
 Family Guy (season 1)
 Judaism in Rugrats
 Millennium (season 1)
 Mythology of The X-Files, Volume 1
 Mythology of The X-Files, Volume 2
 Mythology of The X-Files, Volume 4
 Russell family (Passions)
 Simpson family
 South Park (season 1)
 South Park (season 13)
 The Office (U.S. season 1)
 The Office (U.S. season 4)
 The Simpsons main cast members
 The Simpsons (season 1)
 The Simpsons (season 2)
 The Simpsons (season 3)
 The Simpsons (season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 5)
 The Simpsons (season 6)
 The Simpsons (season 7)
 The Simpsons (season 8)
 The Simpsons (season 9)
 The Simpsons (season 10)
 The Simpsons (season 13)
 The X-Files Mythology, Volume 3
 The X-Files (season 1)
 The X-Files (season 2)
 The X-Files (season 3)
 The X-Files (season 4)
 The X-Files (season 5)
 The X-Files (season 6)
 The X-Files (season 7)
 The X-Files (season 8)
 The X-Files (season 9)
 Veronica Mars (season 3)


Featured pictures







File:Big&Small edit 1.jpg









File:Dustbin Baby- April in the graveyard.jpg









File:Ernest-Borgnine 2004.JPEG









File:Ronald Reagan with cowboy hat 12-0071M edit.jpg












edit  
Main topics


Television

History of television: Early television stations • Geographical usage of television • Golden Age of Television • List of experimental television stations • List of years in television • Mechanical television • Social aspects of television • Television systems before 1940 • Timeline of the introduction of television in countries • Timeline of the introduction of color television in countries
Inventors and pioneers: John Logie Baird • Alan Blumlein • Walter Bruch • Alan Archibald Campbell-Swinton • Allen B. DuMont • Philo Taylor Farnsworth • Charles Francis Jenkins • Boris Grabovsky • Paul Gottlieb Nipkow • Constantin Perskyi • Boris Rosing • David Sarnoff • Kálmán Tihanyi • Vladimir Zworykin
Technology: Comparison of display technology • Digital television • Liquid crystal display television • Large-screen television technology • Technology of television
Terms: Broadcast television systems • Composite monitor • HDTV • Liquid crystal display television • PAL • Picture-in-picture • Pay-per-view • Plasma display • NICAM • NTSC • SECAM







edit  
Subportals





24



BBC



Buffy the Vampire Slayer



Cartoon Network



Disney



Doctor Who



EastEnders



Ed, Edd n Eddy



Family Guy



Friends



Futurama



Glee



Grey's Anatomy



House, M.D.



M*A*S*H



Millennium



Muppets



Nickelodeon



The Simpsons



South Park



SpongeBob SquarePants



Star Trek



Star Wars



Television in Australia



Television in Canada



Television in the United Kingdom



Television in the United States



The X-Files









edit  
Related portals




Animation

Anime and Manga

Arts

Books

Comics

Dance

Film

Literature

Music

Musical Theatre

Photography

Poetry

Radio

Theatre

Video games

Visual arts

Writing








edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Television on Wikinews
News

Television on Wikiquote
Quotes

Television on Commons
Images

Television on Wikisource
Texts

Television on Wikibooks
Manuals











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Television&oldid=700391402"					
Categories: Television portalArts portalsEntertainment portalsTelevision portalsTelevisionHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikinews 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançais한국어ItalianoעבריתҚазақшаLietuviųМакедонскиNederlands日本語OccitanPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSvenskaТатарча/tatarçaไทยاردوTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 18 January 2016, at 06:31.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"1.024","walltime":"1.224","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5293,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":374985,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":172191,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  761.752      1 -total"," 59.23%  451.166      1 Portal:Television/Featured_content"," 56.04%  426.876      4 Template:Columns-list"," 50.75%  386.584    392 Template:Icon"," 11.52%   87.771      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 10.90%   83.008      1 Portal:Television/Subportals"," 10.70%   81.514      1 Template:Related_portals2","  9.10%   69.344     28 Template:Related_portal_item","  8.52%   64.933     28 Template:Portal_image","  4.95%   37.714      1 Template:Featured_portal"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.397","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5756662,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1174","timestamp":"20170207002701","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":1306,"wgHostname":"mw1174"});});
