 






Portal:Transport

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The transport portal





Transport is the movement of people and goods from one place to another. The term is derived from the Latin trans ("across") and portare ("to carry"). Industries which have the business of providing transport equipment, transport services or transport are important in most national economies, and are referred to as transport industries. The field can be divided into infrastructure, vehicles, and operations. Infrastructure consists of the fixed installations necessary for transport, and may be roads, railways, airways, waterways, canals and pipelines or terminals such as airports, railway stations, bus stations and seaports. Vehicles traveling on the network include automobiles, bicycles, buses, trains, people and aircraft. Operations deal with the way the vehicles are operated, and the procedures set for this purpose including the financing, legalities and policies.
More...



Animal-powered
Aviation
By country
Cable
History
Human-powered
Outline
Pipeline
Public
Rail
Road
Ship
Space








edit  
Selected article



The London congestion charge is a fee charged on most motor vehicles operating within the Congestion Charge Zone (CCZ) in central London between 07:00 and 18:00 (Monday-Friday only). The charge, which was introduced on 17 February 2003, remains one of the largest congestion charge zones in the world despite the cancellation of the Western Extension which operated between February 2007 and January 2011. The charge aims to reduce congestion, and to raise investment funds for London's transport system.
The standard charge is £10 for each day, for each non-exempt vehicle that travels within the zone with a penalty of between £60 and £187 levied for non-payment. Enforcement is primarily based on automatic number plate recognition (ANPR). Transport for London (TfL) is responsible for the charge which has been operated by IBM since 1 November 2009.
Read more...



edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Jack Delano



A roundhouse is a building used by railroads for servicing locomotives. Roundhouses are large, circular or semicircular structures that were traditionally located surrounding or adjacent to turntables. The defining feature of the traditional roundhouse was the turntable, which facilitates access when the building is used for repair facilities or for storage of steam locomotives. Early steam locomotives normally travelled forwards only; although reverse operations capabilities were soon built into locomotive mechanisms, the controls were normally optimized for forward travel, and the locomotives often could not operate as well in reverse. Some passenger cars, such as observation cars, were also designed as late as the 1960s for operations in a particular direction. A turntable allowed a locomotive or other rolling stock to be turned around for the return journey.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that Kristiania Sporveisselskab (pictured) established the first tramway in Oslo, Norway, in 1875?
... that the U.S. and Canadian ships escorting the British merchant ships of Convoy ON-67 in 1942 had one working radar between them, lacked sufficient binoculars and had never operated together before?
... that New York State Route 192 and its suffixed route, 192A, were two of only three decommissioned routes in Franklin County's section of Adirondack Park?
... that the sinking of the year-old United States cargo ship SS Washingtonian with her $1,000,000 cargo of raw sugar in January 1915 contributed to a 9% rise in the price of sugar in the United States?




...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Featured content



Articles: American Airlines Flight 11 · American Airlines Flight 77 · BC Rail · Baltimore Steam Packet Company · Ben Gurion International Airport · Sophie Blanchard · Biman Bangladesh Airlines · Boeing 747 · Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport · Isambard Kingdom Brunel · Căile Ferate Române · Canadian Pacific Railway · Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway · Chickasaw Turnpike · Cincinnati, Lebanon and Northern Railway · City and South London Railway · Cogan House Covered Bridge · Eastern Suburbs & Illawarra railway line, Sydney · El Al · Forksville Covered Bridge · General aviation in the United Kingdom · Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway · Hellingly Hospital Railway · Holden · Holden VE Commodore · Hours of service · Indian Railways · Interstate 15 in Arizona · Interstate 355 · Interstate 70 in Utah · John Bull (locomotive) · Kansas Turnpike · London congestion charge · LSWR N15 class · M-35 (Michigan highway) · M62 motorway · Manila Light Rail Transit System · Manila Metro Rail Transit System · Maserati MC12 · Mass Rapid Transit (Singapore) · Mini · Mini Moke · MTR · New Carissa · New York State Route 28 · New York State Route 32 · New York State Route 174 · New York State Route 175 · New York State Route 308 · O-Bahn Busway · Panama Canal · Pan American World Airways · Pioneer Zephyr · Pulaski Skyway · Rail transport in India · Ridge Route · Rogers Locomotive and Machine Works · Royal Blue (B&O train) · San Francisco – Oakland Bay Bridge · SkyTrain (Vancouver) · SR Merchant Navy Class · SR West Country and Battle of Britain Classes · SS Andrea Doria · SS Christopher Columbus · Talbot Tagora · Talyllyn Railway · Transport Legislation Review · Tunnel Railway · United Airlines Flight 93 · Warren County Canal · Winter service vehicle
Lists Numbered highways in Maryland · Highways in Warren County, New York · Interstate Highways in Texas · Locks on the Kennet and Avon Canal · Longest suspension bridge spans · London Underground stations · Railway stations in the West Midlands · Timeline of the London Underground
Topics New York State Route 20N
Portals Aviation Portal · Trains Portal



More...









edit  
Related portals




Aviation

Bridges

Buses

Cars

Cycling

Energy

Engineering

Infrastructure

London Transport

UK Railways

Trams

Spaceflight

Trains

North American railways

Railways in India

Sri Lanka Railways

Nautical

U.S. Merchant Marine

U.S. Roads

Roads





edit  
Things you can do




Write requested articles
Expand stubs: transport stubs, aviation stubs, rail transport stubs, road stubs, transport company stubs, vehicle stubs, water transport stubs
Add {{Portal|Transport}} to the see also section of Transport-related articles.
Join WikiProject Transport.
Tag the talk pages of Transport-related articles with the {{WikiProject Transport}} banner.
Rate the unassessed transport articles in the WikiProject Transport.





edit  
WikiProjects


WikiProject Transport
Aviation (Airlines • Airports • Aircraft • Gliding)
Bridges
Highways (Automobiles • Buses • Canada Roads • Cycling • Motorcycling • Trucks • UK Roads • U.S. Roads)
Ships (Australian Maritime History • Irish Maritime • Lighthouses • Maritime Trades • Piracy • Ports • Shipwrecks)
Spaceflight (Human spaceflight • Rocketry • Unmanned spaceflight)
Trains (Streetcars • Stations • Rapid Transit • NZ Railways • UK Railways • UK Trams • London Transport • New York City Public Transportation • Washington Metro)





edit  
In the news

Wikinews Transport category


January 26: Rescue helicopter crash kills six in Abruzzo, Italy
January 14: Man charged over motorway bridge collapse in Kent, England
January 3: UK documentary claims fire weakened RMS Titanic
January 1: Ferry burns near Jakarta, killing passengers
December 23: Hijackers divert Libyan passenger jet to Malta







edit  
Transport topics





By country • History • Topics • Wikipedia Book
Animal Camel • Cart • Chariot • Carriage • Dog • Donkey • Elephant • Pigeon • Horse • Horse-drawn boat • Mule • Llama • Ox • Pack animal • Reindeer • Sled • Stagecoach • Yak
Aviation Aircraft (list) • Airline (list) • Airport (list) • Airship • Air traffic control • Helicopter • Heliport • History • Military • Safety • Supersonic
Human Aircraft • Bicycle • Ice skate • Pedestrian • Pulled rickshaw • Cycle rickshaw • Watercraft rowing • Roller skate • Skateboard • Walking • Wheelbarrow • Wheelchair
Public Aerial tramway • Class • Elevator • Escalator • Fare • Intermodal • Moving walkway • Passenger • Private • Share taxi
Rail By country • Cable car • Car • Freight train • Funicular • High-speed • History • Locomotive (list • diesel • electric • steam) • Light rail (list) • Maglev • Monorail • Multiple unit • Passenger train • People mover • Personal rapid transit • Track • Rapid transit (list) • Station • Terminology • Train (list) • Tram
Road All-terrain vehicle • Automobile (list) • Bus • Continuous track • Engineering • Freeway • Highway • History • Junction • Moped • Motorcycle • Off-road • Parking • Auto rickshaw • Road (list) • Road pricing • Safety • Sidewalk • Snowmobile • Tractor • Trolleybus • Truck • Van
Shipping Bulk • Cargo • Containerization • Conveyor belt • Intermodal • Mail • Logistics • Transshipment
Space Interplanetary • Rocket • Spaceport • Spacecraft
Technology Bridge • Cable • Conveyor • Engine • Engineering • Pipeline transport • Vehicle propulsion • Tunnel • Wheel
Theory Behavior • Congestion • Economics • Efficiency • Finance • Forecasting • Law • Navigation • Planning • Psychology • Queueing • Spoke-hub • Traffic engineering
Water Amphibious • Barge • Boat (types) • Bulk carrier • Canal • Coastal trading vessel • Container ship • Cruise ship • Ferry (list) • Harbor • Hovercraft • Hydrofoil • Lighthouse • Naval ship • Port (list) • Reefer ship • Roll-on/roll-off • River • Sailing ship • Sea mark • Ship (list) • Submarine • Tanker • Tugboat • Vessel






▼ Transport


► Transport by cargo



► Transport by city



► Transport by continent



► Transport by country



► Transport by mode



► Transport by mountain range



► Transport in art



► Commuting



► Transport controversies



► Transport culture



► Transport economics



► Energy in transport



► Transportation engineering



► Transport and the environment



► Transportation geography



► Transport of heads of state



► Hijacking



► History of transport



► Transport infrastructure



► Intermodal transport



► International transport



► Transport law



► Transport lists



► Logistics



► Military transport



► Transport occupations



► Transport operations



► Transport organisations



► People in transport



► Personal transporters



► Transportation planning



► Private transport



► Public transport



► Transport reliability



► Transport safety



► Shipping



► Student transport



► Sustainable transport



► Transport systems



► Test tracks



► Works about transport



► Wikipedia books on transport



► Transport images



► Transport stubs













edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Purge server cache







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Transport&oldid=749447108"					
Categories: Transport portalsTransportHidden categories: Portals needing attention 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةBrezhonegČeštinaDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어ItalianoעבריתქართულიMagyarМакедонскиМонголNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSuomiТатарча/tatarça粵語 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 14 November 2016, at 11:18.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.196","walltime":"0.330","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1757,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":80958,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5959,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  150.212      1 -total"," 36.86%   55.373      2 Template:Random_portal_component"," 21.10%   31.689      1 Portal:Transport/Topics"," 10.47%   15.727      1 Portal:Transport/Subportals","  9.20%   13.824      1 Template:Related_portals","  8.15%   12.248      9 Portal:Transport/box-header","  7.68%   11.530     11 Template:Box-header","  4.11%    6.179      1 Portal:Transport/WikimediaForPortals","  4.04%    6.064      1 Portal:Transport/Transport_news","  3.21%    4.826      1 Portal:Transport/Transport_news/Wikinews"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.015","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":719595,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1161","timestamp":"20170210184334","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":52,"wgHostname":"mw1268"});});
