 







Portal:War

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism



The war portal


edit 
Introduction









The Battle of Austerlitz by François Gérard.


War is a state of conflict between relatively large groups of people (such as nations, states, organizations, social groups), which is characterized by the use of armed lethal violence between combatants or upon civilians. Other terms for war, which often serve as euphemisms, include armed conflict, hostilities, and police action.
A common perception of war is a series of military campaigns between at least two or more opposing sides involving a dispute over sovereignty, territory, resources, ideology or a host of other issues. A war to liberate an occupied country is sometimes characterised as a "war of liberation", while a war between internal elements of the same state may constitute a civil war.
Aside from humans and their primate brethren, ants are the only other animals known to exhibit such behavior on a large scale.
A battle is a single engagement fought between two or more parties, wherein each party or aligned group will seek to defeat their opponent. Battles are most often fought during military campaigns and can usually be well defined in time, space and action. Wars are generally the continuum of a related series of battles and are guided by strategy, whereas individual battles are the stage on which tactics are employed.
Military history is the recording and analysis of those events in the history of humanity that fall within the category of organised armed conflict, and that relate to the institutions and organizations that prosecute such conflict.


“
If you want peace, prepare for war.(Si vis pacem, para bellum)
”


— Publius Flavius Vegetius Renatus





Show new featured content...


edit 
Featured article



Attalus I ruled Pergamon, a Greek city-state in present-day Turkey, from 241 BCE to 197 BCE. He was the second cousin and the adoptive son of Eumenes I, whom he succeeded, and was the first of the Attalid dynasty to assume the title of king. He won an important victory over the Galatians, newly arrived Celtic tribes from Thrace, who had been, for more than a generation, plundering and exacting tribute throughout most of Asia Minor without any serious check. This victory, celebrated by the triumphal monument at Pergamon, famous for its Dying Gaul, and the liberation from the Gallic "terror" which it represented, earned for Attalus the name of "Soter," and the title of "king." A courageous and capable general and loyal ally of Rome, he played a significant role in the first and second Macedonian Wars, waged against Philip V of Macedon. He conducted numerous naval operations, harassing Macedonian interests throughout the Aegean, winning honors, collecting spoils, and gaining for Pergamon possession of the Greek islands of Aegina during the first war, and Andros during the second, twice narrowly escaping capture at the hands of Philip. He died in 197 BCE, shortly before the end of the second war, at the age of 72, having suffered an apparent stroke while addressing a Boeotian war council some months before.
More featured articles...



edit 
Did you know...?






... that the French stormed the Bagration flèches (pictured) eight times during the Battle of Borodino in 1812?
... that troops of Tadayoshi Sano, a lieutenant general for the Imperial Japanese Army, were reported to have committed atrocities against civilians in Hong Kong and British prisoners of war?
... that besides training its own officers, the Pakistan Naval Academy has trained over 2000 officers of allied navies including the Chief of Naval Staff of the Qatar Emiri Navy?
... that in 1847 French Admiral Jean-Baptiste Cécille sent a captain to attack Vietnam to obtain the release of a bishop, not knowing the bishop had already been freed?

More new articles...





edit 
Featured picture





Zuikaku was an aircraft carrier of the Imperial Japanese Navy. Her planes took part in the attack on Pearl Harbor that started the Pacific War, and she fought in several of the most important naval battles of the war. Sustaining heavy damage in the battle off Cape Engaño, the crew lowered the flag (shown here; note the sharp list to port) and attempted to abandon ship, but were unable to do so before she capsized.
Photo credit: Kazutoshi Hando

More featured pictures...



edit 
Selected anniversaries


February 13

1945 - World War II: Soviet Union forces capture Budapest, Hungary from the Nazis.
1945 - World War II: The Royal Air Force bombers were dispatched to Dresden, Germany (see Bombing of Dresden in World War II).
1960 - Nuclear testing: France tests its first atomic bomb.
1971 - Vietnam War: Backed by American air and artillery support, South Vietnamese troops invade Laos.

More anniversaries...





edit 
Major topics and categories



Eras of warfare
Overview • Prehistoric • Ancient • Medieval • Gunpowder • Industrial • Modern
Types of warfare
Aerial • Amphibious • Arctic • Armoured • Artillery • Asymmetric • Attrition • Biological • Cavalry • Chemical • Conventional • Desert • Electronic • Ground • Guerrilla • Fortification • Herbicidal • Infantry • Information • Jungle • Maneuver • Mechanized • Mercenary • Mountain • Naval • Network-centric • Nuclear • Psychological • Radiological • Siege • Ski • Space • Sub-aquatic • Submarine • Surface • Total • Trench • Unconventional • Urban
Categories






▼ Military


► Military by continent



► Military by country



► Military lists



► Military art



► Military orders, awards and decorations



► Bilateral military relations



► Military branches



► Military buildings and structures



► Military comparisons



► Military culture



► Military diplomacy



► Military disbanding and disarmament



► Military economics



► Military fiction



► Military history



► Military industry



► Military law



► Media of the military



► Military firefighting



► Military forces by type



► Military reforms



► Military strategy



► Military units and formations



► Military operations



► Military organization



► Penal units



► People killed by armed forces



► Military personnel



► Military planning



► Military roads



► Military science



► Military terminology



► Types of military forces



► Military works



► Works about the military



► Military writers



► Military images



► Military stubs









▼ War


► War by medium



► Metaphors referring to war and violence



► Wars



► Aftermath of wars



► Anti-war



► Causes of wars



► Chronology of war



► War deities



► Environmental impact of war



► Laws of war



► War and the media



► Military and war museums



► People associated with war



► War and politics



► War in popular culture



► War templates



► Warfare



► Works about wars









Lists
Armies • Battles • Civil wars • Corps • Divisions • Fleets • Invasions • Operations • Orders of battle • Sieges • Tactics • Wars • Weapons • World War II Commanders
Other related topics
Genocide • Peace • United Nations





edit 
Other Wikimedia projects





War on Wikinews    
War on Wikiquote    
War on Wikisource    
War on Wiktionary    
War on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Texts
Definitions
Images





















Military on Wikinews    
Military on Wikiquote    
Military on Wikisource    
Military on Wiktionary    
Military on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Texts
Definitions
Images
























edit 
Things you can do





Summary of Military history WikiProject open tasks
watch · edit · full list




News and announcements


The February newsletter is now available.




Current discussions


No major discussions are open at the moment






Featured article candidates 
Nike-X • Zenobia • Siege of Arrah • August Meyszner • Æthelflæd • Japanese aircraft carrier Jun'yō • Operation Pamphlet • North Eastern Railway War Memorial • 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état • No. 37 Squadron RAAF • Project Y • INS Vikrant (R11)
Featured article review 
Suleiman the Magnificent
Featured list candidates 
List of National Defence Academy alumni • List of ships of the Royal Yugoslav Navy • List of Param Vir Chakra recipients
A-Class review 
List of frigates of India • List of Indian naval air squadrons • 5th Mechanised Corps (Soviet Union) • Crusades • York_City_War_Memorial • Alan Shepard • 15th Tank Corps (Soviet Union) • Operation Grandslam • Al-Mu'tasim • List of protected cruisers of Italy • HMS St Vincent (1908) • Kragujevac massacre • S-50 (Manhattan Project) • Operation Bernhard • Tube Alloys • High Explosive Research • Curtis P. Iaukea
Peer reviews 
Balfour Declaration • M. P. T. Acharya • Transformation of the Ottoman Empire • Dulcitius • Spanish ship Fenix (1749) • Vlad the Impaler • Battle of Buna–Gona • Battle of Buna–Gona: Allied forces and order of battle • Battle of Buna–Gona: Japanese forces and order of battle • Suiyuan Campaign • Russian military deception • Qamar Javed Bajwa • Rwandan Civil War




Good article nominees 
Bonville–Courtenay feud • Cassel, Nord • Somnath Sharma • Colmar–Meyenheim Air Base • Abaza Hasan Pasha • Naval battles of the American Revolutionary War • Order of the Holy Sepulchre • Muhammadu Buhari • Waffen-SS in popular culture • Disinformation • On Watch: A Memoir • Lal Sena • Matthew Lyon • USS Dictator • Principality of Erfurt • Harry Beadles • Mansur ibn Lu'lu' • Battle of Andrassos • 34th Battalion (New Zealand) • Russian military deception • Battle of Hochkirch • Battle of Kunersdorf • South China Sea raid • Yakovlev Yak-19 • 19th Mechanized Division (Greece) • Kraljevo massacre • John Glenn • Hans Joachim von Zieten • Battle of Kay • Yugoslav torpedo boat T2 • Yugoslav torpedo boat T4 • Baltimore railroad strike of 1877 • Battle of Orthez • Rise of Macedon • Edward William Purvis • Assassination of Iranian nuclear scientists • Aircraft camouflage • 1982 Iranian diplomats kidnapping • Spanish conquest of Honduras • Battle of Leuthen • Free Republic of the Congo • Henry Morgan • Italian cruiser Trieste • British Army • White House to Treasury Building tunnel • HMS Mallow (K81) • HMS Neptune (1909)
Good article reassessments 
William L. Uanna • Fairchild Republic A-10 Thunderbolt II • Joachim Helbig





Articles that need... work on referencing and citation (64,447) • only work on referencing and citation (16,012) • work on coverage and accuracy (50,453) • only work on coverage and accuracy (4,554) • work on structure (15,629) • only work on structure (197) • work on grammar (5,008) • only work on grammar (50) • work on supporting materials (13,620) • only work on supporting materials (613) • assessment (1,200) • assessment as lists (0) • project tags fixed (1) • assessment checklists completed (2) • attention to task force coverage (525)









What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:War&oldid=763322659"					
Categories: Military and war-related portalsPolitics portalsMilitaryWarHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიMagyarМакедонски日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаTiếng Việt粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 2 February 2017, at 16:08.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.220","walltime":"0.317","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1534,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":155525,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":36061,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":15,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  203.565      1 -total"," 21.49%   43.740      2 Template:Random_portal_component"," 20.17%   41.059      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar"," 18.54%   37.736      1 Template:Hlist"," 18.29%   37.230      1 Portal:War/Things_you_can_do"," 17.43%   35.476      1 Template:WPMILHIST_Announcements"," 15.61%   31.785      1 Template:WPMILHIST_Announcements/Shell"," 14.01%   28.515      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 12.26%   24.951      1 Template:Top_icon"," 11.70%   23.811      1 Portal:War/Topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.028","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":974240,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1173","timestamp":"20170213012742","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":55,"wgHostname":"mw1240"});});
