 







Portal:Contents/Culture and the arts

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Culture and the arts



Culture and the arts



The word culture is derived from the Latin root cultura or cultus meaning to "inhabit, cultivate, or honour". In general, culture refers to human activity; different definitions of culture reflect different theories for understanding, or criteria for valuing human activity. Present day Anthropologists use the term to refer to the universal human capacity to classify experiences and to encode and communicate them symbolically. They regard this capacity as a defining feature of the genus Homo. Since culture is learned, people living in different places have different cultures. There can be different cultures in different countries, and there can also be shared cultures among continents.
The arts are a vast subdivision of culture, composed of many creative endeavors and disciplines. It is a broader term than "art," which as a description of a field usually means only the visual arts. The arts encompasses visual arts, literary arts and the performing arts – music, theatre, dance, spoken word and film, among others.
Art, in its broadest meaning, is the expression of creativity or imagination. The word art comes from the Latin word ars, which, loosely translated, means "arrangement". Art is commonly understood as the act of making works (or artworks) which use the human creative impulse and which have meaning beyond simple description. Art is often distinguished from crafts and recreational hobby activities. The term creative arts denotes a collection of disciplines whose principal purpose is the output of material for the viewer or audience to interpret. As such, art may be taken to include forms as diverse as prose writing, poetry, dance, acting or drama, film, music, sculpture, photography, illustration, architecture, collage, painting, craft and fashion. Art may also be understood as relating to creativity, æsthetics and the generation of emotion.



The Culture Portal · The Arts Portal



More about culture, the arts, and art...









Culture and the arts: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)


Culture and Humanities  – Celebrities • Classics • Critical theory • Language • Movements • Mythology • Philosophy • Popular culture • Traditions • Tourism

Art and The arts  – Museums 

Literature  – Poetry
Performing arts – Comedy ( Humour) • Dance • Film • Music • Opera • Theatre • Circus
Visual arts – Animation • Architecture • Comics • Design • Drawing • Painting • Photography • Sculpture • Textile arts • Fashion • Color 




Entertainment and Recreation – Cooking • Festivals • Hobbies • Parties 

Games and Toys – Board games • Card games • Computer and video games • Role-playing games






Sports – Association football (Soccer)  • American football • Baseball • Basketball • Cricket • Cue sports • Golf • Ice hockey • Olympics • Racing (Cycling, Formula One) • Rugby • Swimming • Tennis




Mass media – Internet (Blogosphere, Podcasts, and Websites) • Newspaper • Publications • Publishing • Radio • Television








edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Culture – set of shared attitudes, values, goals, and practices that define a group of people, such as the people of a particular region. Culture includes the elements that characterize a particular peoples' way of life.

The arts – vast subdivision of culture, composed of many creative endeavors and disciplines. The arts encompasses visual arts, literary arts and the performing arts.

Literature – the art of written works.

Fiction – any form of narrative which deals, in part or in whole, with events that are not factual, but rather, imaginary and invented by its author(s).
Poetry – literary art in which language is used for its aesthetic and evocative qualities in addition to, or in lieu of, its apparent meaning.
Critical theory – examination and critique of society and culture, drawing from knowledge across the social sciences and humanities.


Visual arts – art forms that create works which are primarily visual in nature.

Architecture – The art and science of designing and erecting buildings and other physical structures.

Classical architecture – architecture of classical antiquity and later architectural styles influenced by it.


Crafts – recreational activities and hobbies that involve making things with one's hands and skill.
Drawing – visual art that makes use of any number of drawing instruments to mark a two-dimensional medium.
Design – the process for planning the overall look of an object.
Film – motion pictures.
Painting – practice of applying paint, pigment, color or other medium to a surface with a brush or other object.

History of painting


Photography – art, science, and practice of creating pictures by recording radiation on a radiation-sensitive medium, such as a photographic film, or electronic image sensors.
Sculpture – three-dimensional artwork created by shaping or combining hard materials - typically stone such as marble - or metal, glass, or wood.


Performing arts – those forms of art that use the artist's own body, face, and presence as a medium.

Dance – art form of movement of the body.
Film – moving pictures, the art form that records performances visually.
Theatre – collaborative form of fine art that uses live performers to present the experience of a real or imagined event before a live audience in a specific place.
Music – art form the medium of which is sound and silence.

Music genres

Jazz – musical style that originated at the beginning of the 20th century in African American communities in the Southern United States, mixing African and European music traditions.
Opera – art form in which singers and musicians perform a dramatic work combining text (called a libretto) and musical score.


Musical instruments – devices created or adapted for the purpose of making musical sounds.

Guitars – the guitar is a plucked string instrument, usually played with fingers or a pick. The guitar consists of a body with a rigid neck to which the strings, generally six in number, are attached. Guitars are traditionally constructed of various woods and strung with animal gut or, more recently, with either nylon or steel strings.




Stagecraft – technical aspects of theatrical, film, and video production. It includes, but is not limited to, constructing and rigging scenery, hanging and focusing of lighting, design and procurement of costumes, makeup, procurement of props, stage management, and recording and mixing of sound.




Gastronomy – the art and science of good eating, including the study of food and culture.

Food preparation – act of preparing foodstuffs for eating. It encompasses a vast range of methods, tools, and combinations of ingredients to improve the flavour and digestibility of food. Includes but is not limited to cooking.
Cuisines – styles of cooking characterized by distinctive ingredients, techniques and dishes, each usually associated with a specific culture or geographic region.
Meals – eating occasions that take place at a certain time and includes specific prepared food.
Food and drink

Chocolate – raw or processed food produced from the seed of the tropical Theobroma cacao tree.
Wine – alcoholic beverage made from fermented fruit juice (typically from grapes).




Recreation and Entertainment – any activity which provides a diversion or permits people to amuse themselves in their leisure time. Entertainment is generally passive, such as watching opera or a movie.

Festivals – entertainment events centering on and celebrating a unique aspect of a community, usually staged by that community.
Fiction – any form of narrative which deals, in part or in whole, with events that are not factual, but rather, imaginary and invented by its author(s).

Spy fiction – genre of fiction concerning forms of espionage

James Bond – fictional character created in 1953 by writer Ian Fleming. Since then, the character has grown to icon status, featured in many novels, movies, video games and other media.


Fantasy – genre of fiction using magic and the supernatural as primary elements of plot, theme or setting, often in imaginary worlds, generally avoiding the technical/scientific content typical of Science fiction, but overlapping with it

A Song of Ice and Fire franchise (Game of Thrones) – fantasy series and setting by writer George R. R. Martin, home to dragons, White Walkers, and feuding noble houses.
Middle-earth – fantasy setting by writer J.R.R. Tolkien, home to hobbits, orcs, and many other mystical races and creatures.
Narnia – fantasy setting by C.S. Lewis, home to talking animals, centaurs, witches, and many other mythical creatures and characters.


Science fiction – a genre of fiction dealing with imaginary but more or less plausible (or at least nonsupernatural) content such as future settings, futuristic science and technology, space travel, aliens, giant monsters (Kaiju), and paranormal abilities. Exploring the consequences of scientific innovations is one purpose of science fiction, making it a "literature of ideas".

Star Trek – sci-fi setting created by Gene Roddenberry, focused mostly upon the adventures of the personnel of Star Fleet of the United Federation of Planets and their exploration and interaction with the regions of space within and beyond their borders.




Games – structured playing, usually undertaken for enjoyment, involving goals, rules, challenge, and interaction.

Board games – tabletop games that involve counters or pieces moved or placed on a pre-marked surface or "board", according to a set of rules.

Chess – two-player board game played on a chessboard, a square-checkered board with 64 squares arranged in an eight-by-eight grid. Each player begins the game with sixteen pieces: One king, one queen, two rooks, two knights, two bishops, and eight pawns.


Card games – game using playing cards as the primary device with which the game is played, be they traditional or game-specific.

Poker – family of card games that share betting rules and usually (but not always) hand rankings.


Video games – electronic games that involves interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device.


Sports – organized, competitive, entertaining, and skillful activity requiring commitment, strategy, and fair play, in which a winner can be defined by objective means. Generally speaking, a sport is a game based in physical athleticism.

Ball games

Baseball – bat-and-ball sport played between two teams of nine players each where the aim is to score runs by hitting a thrown ball with a bat and touching a series of four bases arranged at the corners of a ninety-foot diamond.
Basketball – team sport in which two teams of five players try to score points by throwing or "shooting" a ball through the top of a basketball hoop while following a set of rules.
Golf – club and ball sport in which players use various clubs to hit balls into a series of holes on a course in as few strokes as possible.
Tennis – sport usually played between two players (singles) or between two teams of two players each (doubles), using specialized racquets to strike a felt-covered hollow rubber ball over a net into the opponent's court.


Combat sports

Fencing – family of combat sports using bladed weapons.
Martial arts – extensive systems of codified practices and traditions of combat, practiced for a variety of reasons, including self-defense, competition, physical health and fitness, as well as mental and spiritual development.


Traveling / racing sports

Boating

Canoeing and kayaking – two closely related forms of watercraft paddling, involving manually propelling and navigating specialized boats called canoes and kayaks using a blade that is joined to a shaft, known as a paddle, in the water.
Sailing – using sailboats for sporting purposes. It can be recreational or competitive. Competitive sailing is in the form of races.


Cycling – use of bicycles or other non-motorized cycles for transport, recreation, or for sport. Also called bicycling or biking.
Motorcycling – riding a motorcycle. A variety of subcultures and lifestyles have been built up around motorcycling and motorcycle racing.
Running – moving rapidly on foot, during which both feet are off the ground at regular intervals.
Skiing – mode of transport, recreational activity and competitive winter sport in which the participant uses skis to glide on snow. Many types of competitive skiing events are recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), and the International Ski Federation (FIS).






Humanities – academic disciplines that study the human condition, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences.

Area studies – comprehensive interdisciplinary research and academic study of the people and communities of particular regions. Disciplines applied include history, political science, sociology, cultural studies, languages, geography, literature, and related disciplines.

Sinology – study of China and things related to China, such as its classical language and literature.


Classical studies – branch of the Humanities comprising the languages, literature, philosophy, history, art, archaeology and all other cultural elements of the ancient Mediterranean world (Bronze Age ca. BC 3000 – Late Antiquity ca. AD 300–600); especially Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome.










edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)



Dance: Dances • Dance styles
Entertainment:

Actors and characters: Touhou Project characters • Celebrities on The Simpsons • Characters from The Simpsons • Characters from The Sopranos • Characters in 24 • Game show hosts • Guest stars on Friends • Guest stars on Will & Grace • Sesame Street human characters • Sesame Street Muppets • Star Trek races


Music: Concert tours • Musical events • Music genres • Musical instruments • Opera houses • Schools of music




Electronic music: Music genres • Record labels






Musicians and musical groups

Composers: Classical music composers • National Academy of Popular Music/Songwriters Hall of Fame
Bands: Hardcore punk bands
Musicians: Alternative music artists • Ambient artists • Disco artists • Grammy Hall of Fame Award recipients • Hip hop artists • R&B musicians • Soul musicians • List of best-selling music artists


Record labels
Songs and compositions: Albums • Best selling singles by year (UK) • Christmas carols • Christmas number one singles (UK) • Compositions of Johann Sebastian Bach • Famous operas • Operettas • Pieces
Video game music: Video game musicians




Video

Film: Actors • Directors • Film festivals • Film institutes • Film source material • Film awards

Films: Computer-animated films • Preserved films • Highest-grossing • Most expensive • Rated NC-17 • Film series • Trilogies • Greatest • Worst

By title: # • A • B • C • D • E • F • G • H • I • J-K • L • M • N-O • P • Q-R • S • T • U-V-W • X-Y-Z
By year: 1920s • 1930s • 1940s • 1950s • 1960s • 1970s • 1980s • 1990s • 2000s • 2010s
By genre: Cult • Fantasy • Noir • Horror • Musicals • Science fiction • War • Westerns










Television: by year • Television networks • Television stations • TV stations in North America

Television channels

By country: Australia • Canada • Denmark • Ireland • United Kingdom • United States
By language: Spanish • French • German • Greek • Italian *Tamil


Television programs: Animated series • Lists of anime • UK television series • British TV shows remade for the American market • Children's television series • Comedies • Cult television shows • Dramadies • Most-watched television episodes • Sci-fi TV programs • Spin-off shows • Soap operas • TV shows by city setting

By broadcaster: BBC • ABC • CBS • Fox • MTV • NBC • UPN • Cartoon Network • ANT1 • ERT • MEGA Channel
By program: Invader Zim
By characters: Muppets







Sports: Shared franchise names • Judo techniques • Martial arts (Weapons) • Gay athletes • Sports leagues, Defunct sports leagues • Ski areas • Surfing • List of sports

Baseball: Highest paid baseball players • Major league baseball players • Lifetime home run leaders • Triple crown

AL Gold Glove Winners at: Pitcher | Catcher | 1st Base | 2nd Base | Shortstop | 3rd Base | Outfield
NL Gold Glove Winners at: Pitcher | Catcher | 1st Base | 2nd Base | Shortstop | 3rd Base | Outfield


Climbing
Football (soccer): Football teams • 100 Greatest Living Football Players • Football clubs in France • Women's association football clubs • National association football teams by nickname
Olympics: IOC country codes • Olympic medalists

Gaming: Games, by year (non-video) • Board game publishers • Japanese board games • Mancala variants • Miniature wargames

Chess: Games • Terms • Openings • World records • Players • World championship matches • Tournaments • Books
Video games: Arcade games • Console palettes

Literature: By year • Publishers • Scientific journals

Books: (By genre • Banned books • Fictional books) • Writers • Literary awards • List of best-selling books
Fiction: Fairy tales • Fictional characters • Fictional computers • Fictional robots and androids

Comics: Manga • List of best-selling manga • Comic strips

Comic books

DC Comics: Characters • Elseworlds • Justice League members • Legion of Super-Heroes members • Superman enemies • Locations of the DC Universe
Marvel Comics: Characters • X-Men• Avengers




Fictional places: Fictional countries • Fictional planets • Imaginary universes • Middle-earth
Major themes: Adultery • Family • Heroes / Heroines in literature • Sadomasochism • School • Science fiction • Smuggling • Travel


Magazines: Men's • Women's • Teen • Newspapers • Fictional magazines • By circulation • Anomalous phenomena

Mythology: Celtic mythological beings • Demigods • Greek mythological characters • Nordic Gods
Other: Artworks known in English by a foreign title • Colors • Public Art • Calendars • Gardening • Goethe-Institut locations • Headgear • Holidays • Knots • Mascots • Museums • Paintings (most expensive) • Recordings •







edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)






Culture

Language: Constructed languages (Esperanto), English

Arts (Aesthetics)

Literature: Books •  Comics •  Children's literature •  French literature •  Poetry •  Writing

Authors: Jane Austen •  Charles Dickens •  William Shakespeare •  Oscar Wilde •  Kazi Nazrul Islam
Novels: Dragonlance, Harry Potter, Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
Fictional worlds: Discworld, James Bond, Middle-earth, Narnia, Oz, Fictional characters




Performing arts

Dance: Ballet
Film: A Nightmare on Elm Street, Academy Award, Alien, Animation, Bollywood, Disney, Indiana Jones, Silent film, Star Wars
Music: Music of Australia •  Music of Canada  •  Record production

Styles: Alternative rock, Blues, Christian music, Classical guitar, Classical music, Country music, Electronic music, Eurovision, Guitar, Heavy metal (Christian metal), Hip hop, Indian classical music, Industrial music, Jazz, K-pop, Latin music, Marching band, Percussion, Piano, Pipe organ, Pop music, Progressive rock, Punk rock, Rock and Roll, Rock music, R&B and Soul Music
Artists: AC/DC, AKB48, A. R. Rahman, Bryan Adams, Aerosmith, Christina Aguilera, Backstreet Boys, The Beach Boys, The Beatles, Justin Bieber, Björk, Brandy Norwood, Mariah Carey, Cher, Kelly Clarkson, The Clash, Miley Cyrus, Celine Dion, Dream Theater, Bob Dylan, Grateful Dead, Eminem, Fergie, Marvin Gaye, Girls Aloud, Green Day, Iron Maiden, The Jackson Family, Janet Jackson, Michael Jackson, The Kinks, Beyoncé, Lady Gaga, Avril Lavigne, Led Zeppelin, Linkin Park, Madonna, Miles Davis, Motörhead, Katy Perry, Pink Floyd, Powderfinger, Elvis Presley, Queen, Rihanna, The Rolling Stones, Sakis Rouvas, Rush, Santana, Britney Spears, The Supremes, Slipknot, Shania Twain, Shreya Ghoshal, U2, Usher, Rufus Wainwright, Neil Young, Frank Zappa, Shakira


Opera: Gilbert & Sullivan
Television: Australian television, BBC, The Big Bang Theory, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Cartoon Network, Doctor Who, EastEnders, Ed, Edd n Eddy, Family Guy, Friends, Futurama, House, M.D., M*A*S*H, Millennium, Monty Python, Muppets, Nickelodeon, SpongeBob SquarePants, Star Trek, 24, The Simpsons, Sherlock Holmes
Theatre: Musical theatre








Visual arts:

Portal:Anime and manga (Dragon Ball) •  Architecture (Portal) •  Cartoon •  Computer graphics •  Design •  Graffiti •  Origami •  Photography •  Studio Ghibli •  Textile arts (Fashion, Knitting) • Typography




Genre: Comedy •  Furry •  Horror fiction •  King Arthur •  Mythology •  Pornography •  Speculative fiction • Steampunk •  Superhero fiction

Recreation and Entertainment

Food: Bacon
Drink: Beer, Coffee, Liquor, Wine


Sports: Asian Games · Association football (A-League, Football in Argentina, Association football variants, Football in Africa, Football in Germany, Football in India, English football, Soccer in the United States, Women's association football) •  Athletics •  Australian rules football •  Badminton •  Baseball •  Basketball (College basketball, National Basketball Association) •  Sport of Canada •  Commonwealth Games •  Cricket (Australian cricket team in England in 1948, Indian Premier League) •  Cycling •  Fencing •  Figure skating • Fishing •  Gridiron football (American football, Canadian football, College football, National Football League) •  Golf •  Gymnastics •  Horse racing •  Ice hockey •  Martial arts •  Karate • Olympics •  Paralympics •  Professional wrestling •  Racing (Motorsport: Formula One, NASCAR, Motorcycle racing) •  Rock climbing •  Rugby (Rugby league, Rugby union) •  Sailing •  Snooker •  Tennis •  Water sports (Swimming, Underwater diving)  •  Women's sport
Games: Amusement parks •  Strategy games (Chess, Warhammer) •  Role-playing games (Dungeons & Dragons)

Video games: Final Fantasy •  Halo •  Mario •  Massively multiplayer online games •  Nintendo •  PlayStation •  Pokémon •  Sega •  SNK  •  The Sims •  Sonic the Hedgehog •  Xbox •  Zelda




Hobbies, Crafts and Other: Gardening •  Gemology and Jewelry •  Home improvement • Numismatics •  Philately •  Radio •  Scouting •  Toys (Lego)











edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Culture

Clothing • Owarai • Wine


Arts


Architecture (Classical) • Dance (Ballet • Partners) • Glass Art • Graffiti • Literary • Motion picture • Music (Bagpipes • Colombian • Italian (used in English) • Guitar • Jazz and Popular • Eponymous musical terms) • Poetry (Groups and movements) • Sculpture


Fiction


Anime and manga • Dune • Jabberwocky • Literary terms • Newspeak words


Games


Chess (Problems) • Contract bridge • Go opening • Pinball • Poker • Role-playing games • Sudoku • Solitaire


Sport


American football • Association football • Australian and New Zealand punting • Baseball • Basketball • Canadian football • Climbing • Cricket • Cue sports (pool, carom billiards, snooker) • Curling • Cycling (Parts) • Darts • Equestrianism • Fencing • Figure skating • Golf • Ice hockey • Rowing • Rugby league • Rugby union • SCUBA and underwater diving • Sports terms named after people • Sumo wrestling • Table tennis • Tennis • Trampolining • Volleyball • Water polo • Wing Chun • Wrestling


Crafts and hobbies


Conjuring • Notaphily • Numismatics








edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)



Main categories: Culture and Arts



Culture and Humanities
Classics
Critical theory
Cultural anthropology
Folklore
Food culture
Food and drink
Languages
Literature
Museology
Mythology
Philosophy
Popular culture
Science and culture
Traditions




Arts and Entertainment
Arts and crafts
Celebrity
Censorship in the arts
Festivals
Humor
Literature
Museums
Parties
Poetry




Performing arts
Circus
Dance
Film
Music
Opera
Storytelling
Theatre




Visual arts
Architecture
Comics
Crafts
Design
Drawing
Film

Animation


New media art
Painting
Photography
Sculpture




Games and Toys
Board games
Card games
Dolls
Puppetry
Puzzles
Role-playing games
Video games




Sports and Recreation
Air sports
American football
Association football
Auto racing
Baseball
Basketball
Boating
Boxing
Canoeing
Cricket
Cycling
Exercise
Fishing
Golf
Gymnastics
Hobbies
Horse racing
Ice hockey
Lacrosse
Olympic Games
Rugby league
Rugby union
Sailing
Skiing
Swimming
Tennis
Track and field
Walking trails
Water sports
Whitewater sports




Mass media
Broadcasting
Film
Internet
Magazines
Newspapers
Publications
Publishing
Television
Radio









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)


Culture:

The arts




Literature

Fiction • Poetry • Critical theory








Visual arts

Architecture • Crafts • Drawing • Film • Painting • Photography • Sculpture








Performing arts

Dance • Film • Theatre
Music

Opera


Sound art








Gastronomy

Breakfast
Cooking
Military food






Entertainment

Festivals
Fiction

Babylon 5
Buffy the Vampire Slayer
Dune
World of Darkness








Games

MS-DOS games:

0–9  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z












Windows games:

0–9  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z










Sports








Basketball
Canoeing and kayaking
Cricket
Martial arts
Motorcycling
Running
Surfing
Tennis






Fashion


Recreation

Climbing
Pubs




Area studies

Classical studies
Sinology

Cantonese











edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Culture_and_the_arts&oldid=657866384"					
Categories: ArtsCultureContent portalsCulture portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Español 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 21 April 2015, at 22:26.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.256","walltime":"0.357","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1376,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":236929,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17025,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  147.952      1 -total"," 62.13%   91.922      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 37.81%   55.945      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 23.62%   34.945      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 21.30%   31.518      2 Template:Center"," 17.85%   26.406     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 11.07%   16.377      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)"," 10.96%   16.208      1 Template:Small","  6.74%    9.967      1 Portal:Contents/Portals/Culture_and_the_arts","  6.08%    8.993      9 Template:Box-header-watch"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.041","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1638160,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1188","timestamp":"20170203013949","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":56,"wgHostname":"mw1218"});});
