 







Portal:Contents/Health and fitness

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Health and fitness



Health is the level of functional or metabolic efficiency of a living organism. In humans it is the ability of individuals or communities to adapt and self-manage when facing physical, mental or social challenges. The most widely accepted definition of good health is that of the World Health Organization Constitution. It states: "health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and is not merely the absence of disease or infirmity" (World Health Organization, 1946). In more recent years, this statement has been amplified to include the ability to lead a "socially and economically productive life." The WHO definition is not without criticism, mainly that it is much too broad.
The most solid aspects of wellness that fit firmly in the realm of medicine are environmental health, nutrition, disease prevention, and public health. These matters can be investigated at length and can assist in measuring well-being. Please see our medical disclaimer for cautions about Wikipedia's limitations.



The Health Portal



More about Health...









Health and fitness: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)


Main articles: Health, Self-care, and Health science
General  – Health care • Health care industry • Health disparities • Mental health • Population health • Preventive medicine • Public health • Complementary and alternative medicine
Self-care – Body composition • Life extension • Longevity • Physical fitness

Nutrition – Calorie restriction • Dietary supplements (Amino acids, Minerals, Nootropics, Nutrients, Vitamins) • Diet (nutrition) • Dieting • Healthy eating pyramid.


Physical exercise – Stretching • Overtraining • Aerobic exercise • Anaerobic exercise • Sport • Walking


Hygiene – Cleanliness • Oral hygiene • Occupational hygiene

Health science – Dentistry • Occupational therapy • Optometry • Pharmacy • Physiotherapy • Speech-Language Pathology

Medicine – Midwifery • Nursing • Veterinary medicine• Dentistry • Holistic Medicine




Human medicine – Cardiology • Dermatology • Emergency medicine • Endocrinology and Diabetology • Epidemiology • Geriatrics • Hematology • Internal medicine • Nephrology • Neurology • Oncology • Pathology • Pediatrics • Psychiatry • Rheumatology • Surgery • Urology




Illness  – Aging • Alcoholism • Atrophy • Deficiency disease • Depression • Disease • Disorders (types) • Drug abuse • Eating disorder • Foodborne illness • Malnutrition • Obesity • Smoking








edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)



See also: Biology (below)

Health – Health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being. this is a level of functional and (or) metabolic efficiency of a person in mind, body and spirit; being free from illness, injury or pain (as in “good health” or “healthy”). The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as "a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity."

Death – cessation of life. Zero health.
Exercise – any bodily activity that enhances or maintains physical fitness and overall health and wellness. It is performed for various reasons including strengthening muscles and the cardiovascular system, honing athletic skills, weight loss or maintenance, and mental health including the prevention of depression. Frequent and regular physical exercise boosts the immune system, and helps prevent the "diseases of affluence" such as heart disease, cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes mellitus and obesity.
Nutrition – provision, to cells and organisms, of the materials necessary (in the form of food) to support life.
Life extension – The study of slowing down or reversing the processes of aging to extend both the maximum and average lifespan.
Healthcare science – all the sciences related to the overall improvement of physical well-being of humans.
Medicine – science and art of healing. It encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness.

Anesthesia – a way to control pain during a surgery or procedure by using medicine called anesthetics.
Clinical research
Diabetes – a group of metabolic diseases in which the person has high blood glucose (blood sugar) above 200mg/dl, either because insulin production is inadequate, or because the body's cells do not respond properly to insulin, or both.
Dentistry – branch of medicine that is involved in the study, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of diseases, disorders and conditions of the mouth, maxillofacial area and the adjacent and associated structures (teeth) and their impact on the human body.
Emergency medicine – medical specialty involving care for undifferentiated, unscheduled patients with acute illnesses or injuries that require immediate medical attention. Emergency physicians undertake acute investigations and interventions to resuscitate and stabilize patients.
Obstetrics – medical specialty dealing with the care of all women's reproductive tracts and their children during pregnancy (prenatal period), childbirth and the postnatal period.
Trauma & Orthopedics – medical specialty dealing with bones, joints and operative management of trauma.
Psychiatry – medical specialty devoted to the study and treatment of mental disorders. These mental disorders include various affective, behavioural, cognitive and perceptual abnormalities.

Autism a mental condition, present from early childhood, characterized by great difficulty in communicating and forming relationships with other people and in using language and abstract concepts.
Psychiatric survivors movement –












edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)



Medicine
Acronyms in healthcare • Abbreviations  (for medical organizations and personnel) • Alternative medicine • Pharmaceutical Drugs • Psychiatric drugs (by condition treated) • Psychotherapies • Reference ranges for common blood tests • Surgical procedures • Symptoms


Diseases
Genetic disorders • Infectious diseases • Mental illnesses • Notifiable diseases • Neurological disorders • List of DSM-IV codes


Nutrition
Antioxidants in food • B vitamins • Diets • Food additives (Codex Alimentarius) • Foods • Fruit • Herbs and spices • Macronutrients • Meat • Micronutrients • Nootropics (smart drugs) • Poor nutrition • Sandwiches • Seafood • Seeds • Vegetables








edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)


Health and fitness

Medicine • Biology • Nursing • Dentistry • Food • Pharmacy and Pharmacology • Psychiatry • Pervasive developmental disorders • Complementary and Alternative Medicine • Sexuality • Viruses • Trauma & Orthopaedics • Sports









edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)




Alternative medicine
Anatomy

Location
Motion


Communication disorders
Diabetes
Acronyms in healthcare
Medical terminology

Roots, suffixes and prefixes
Medical slang
Abbreviations
Prescription abbreviations


Psychiatry
Clinical research









edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)



Main categories: Health, Self care, and Healthcare occupations



Self care
Health promotion
Life extension
Prevention
Sexual health
Sleep
Skin Care




Nutrition
Dietary supplements
Dietetics
Nutrients

Amino acids
Minerals
Nootropics
Phytochemicals
Vitamins


Nutritional advice pyramids




Exercise
Aerobics
Bodyweight exercise (Calisthenics)
Cycling
Exercise equipment
Exercise instructors
Dancing
Exercise physiology
Hiking
Pilates
Running
Sports
Swimming
T'ai Chi Ch'uan
Walking
Weight training

exercises


Yoga




Hygiene
Cleaning
Oral hygiene




Positive psychology
Mental health
Psychotherapy




Public health
Health by country
Healthcare
Health law
Health promotion
Health standards
Hospitals
Occupational safety and health
Pharmaceutical industry
Pharmaceuticals policy
Safety




Health science
Clinical research
Diseases
Epidemiology
Midwifery
Nursing
Nutrition
Optometry
Pharmacy
Public health




Medicine




Human medicine
Alternative medicine
Cardiology
Endocrinology
Forensics
Gastroenterology
Human Genetics
Geriatrics
Gerontology
Gynecology
Hematology
Nephrology
Neurology
Obstetrics
Oncology
Ophthalmology
Orthopedic surgical procedures
Pathology
Pediatrics
Psychiatry
Rheumatology
Surgery
Urology




Dentistry
Dental hygiene
Orthodontics




Veterinary medicine









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)



See also: Biology (below)

Health:

Exercise
Life extension


Health science

Medicine

Fields

Nursing
Oncology
Trauma & Orthopaedics


Disease

AIDS




Nutrition









edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Health_and_fitness&oldid=610124504"					
Categories: HealthContent portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Українська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 May 2014, at 21:54.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.148","walltime":"0.233","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1301,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":128956,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":18441,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  156.938      1 -total"," 63.61%   99.822      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 36.34%   57.032      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 19.12%   30.010      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 16.91%   26.543      2 Template:Center"," 14.59%   22.899     20 Template:Clickable_button_2","  9.78%   15.350      1 Portal:Contents/Indexes/Health_and_fitness","  8.86%   13.898      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  8.80%   13.812      1 Template:Small","  7.78%   12.217      1 Portal:Contents/Overview/Health_and_fitness"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.041","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1639186,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1220","timestamp":"20170206182644","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":66,"wgHostname":"mw1179"});});
