 







Portal:Contents/Natural and physical sciences

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Natural and physical sciences



In science, the term natural science refers to a rational approach to the study of the universe, which is understood as obeying rules or laws of natural origin. The term 'natural science' is also used to distinguish those fields that use the scientific method to study nature from the social sciences, which use the scientific method to study human behavior and society; and from the formal sciences, such as mathematics and logic, which use a different methodology.
Physical science is an encompassing term for the branches of natural science, and science, that study non-living systems, in contrast to the biological sciences. However, the term "physical" creates an involuntary, somewhat arbitrary distinction, since many branches of physical science also study biological phenomena.



The Science Portal



More about Natural science and Physical science...









Natural and physical sciences: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)



Main articles: Natural science and Nature   See also Science, Scientific method, Scientist, Scientific misconduct, and Fields of science

Biology – Anatomy (Human anatomy) • Astrobiology • Biochemistry • Bioinformatics • Biological anthropology • Biophysics • Botany • Cell biology • Computational biology • Developmental biology • Ecology • Evolutionary biology • Genetics (Molecular genetics, Population genetics) • Genomics • Marine biology • Histology • Human biology • Immunology • Microbiology • Molecular biology • Neuroscience • Origin of life • Paleontology • Parasitology • Pathology • Physiology • Taxonomy • Zoology (Ethology)
Physical sciences – Astronomy • Chemistry • Earth science • Physics (Unsolved problems in physics) • Systems theory







edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Science – systematic enterprise that builds and organizes knowledge in the form of testable explanations and predictions about the world. An older and closely related meaning still in use today is that of Aristotle, for whom scientific knowledge was a body of reliable knowledge that can be logically and rationally explained.
Basis of natural science – natural science is a major branch of science, that tries to explain and predict nature's phenomena, based on empirical evidence. In natural science, hypotheses must be verified scientifically to be regarded as scientific theory. Validity, accuracy, and social mechanisms ensuring quality control, such as peer review and repeatability of findings, are amongst the criteria and methods used for this purpose.

Scientific method – body of techniques for investigating phenomena, acquiring new knowledge, or correcting and integrating previous knowledge. To be termed scientific, a method of inquiry must be based on gathering empirical and measurable evidence subject to specific principles of reasoning.
Big Science –
Metric system – decimal based system of measurement based on the metre and the kilogram, units of measure that were developed in France in 1799 and which is now used in most branches on international commerce, science and engineering.

Branches of natural science – also called "the natural sciences", which are:

Biology – study of life and living organisms, including their structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, distribution, and taxonomy.

Biological phenomena

Death – cessation of life; end of life-cycle


Branches of biology

Anatomy – study of the structure of living things.

Human nervous system – part of the human body that coordinates a person's voluntary and involuntary actions and transmits signals between different parts of the body.

Human brain – central organ of the nervous system located in the head of a human being, protected by the skull




Biochemistry – study of substances found in biological organisms.
Biophysics – interdisciplinary science that uses the methods of physical science to study biological systems. Studies included under the branches of biophysics span all levels of biological organization, from the molecular scale to whole organisms and ecosystems.
Botany – study of plant life.
Cell biology – study of cells. Their physiological properties, their structure, the organelles they contain, interactions with their environment, their life cycle, division and death.
Ecology – study of interactions between organisms and their environment.
Evolution – study of evolutionary processes that produced the diversity of life on Earth.

Creation–evolution controversy – recurring cultural, political, and theological dispute about the origins of the Earth, of humanity, and of other life.


Genetics – study of genes, heredity, and variation in living organisms.
Immunology – study of immune systems in all organisms.
Neuroscience – scientific study of the nervous system.

Brain mapping – neuroscience techniques for making spatial maps of the (human or non-human) brain.


Paleontology – study of prehistoric life, including organisms' evolution and interactions with each other and their environments (their paleoecology).

Dinosaurs – diverse group of animals that were the dominant terrestrial vertebrates for over 160 million years, from the late Triassic period (about 230 million years ago) until the end of the Cretaceous (about 65 million years ago), when the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event led to the extinction of most dinosaur species at the close of the Mesozoic era.


Pharmacology – broadly defined as the study of drug action and pharmacokinetics.
Physiology – study of how living organisms function.
Zoology – study of the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.


Life forms – living organisms

Animals – multicellular, eukaryotic organisms of the kingdom Animalia (also called Metazoa). All animals are motile, meaning they can move spontaneously and independently at some point in their lives. Their body plan eventually becomes fixed as they develop, although some undergo a process of metamorphosis later on in their lives. All animals are heterotrophs: they must ingest other organisms or their products for sustenance.

Ants – more than 12,000 species of social insects evolved from wasp-like ancestors, that live in organised colonies which may consist of millions of ants.
Birds – feathered, winged, bipedal, endothermic (warm-blooded), egg-laying, vertebrate animals. There are about 10,000 living species of birds.
Fish – any member of a paraphyletic group of organisms that consist of all gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits.

Sharks – type of fish with a full cartilaginous skeleton and a highly streamlined body. The earliest known sharks date from more than 420 million years ago.








Physical sciences – encompasses the branches of science that study non-living systems, in contrast to the life sciences. However, the term "physical" creates an unintended, somewhat arbitrary distinction, since many branches of physical science also study biological phenomena.

Chemistry – study of matter, especially its properties, structure, composition, behavior, reactions, interactions and the changes it undergoes.

Organic chemistry – study of the structure, properties, composition, reactions, and preparation (by synthesis or by other means) of carbon-based compounds, hydrocarbons, and their derivatives.
Water – chemical substance with the chemical formula H2O. Its molecule contains one oxygen and two hydrogen atoms connected by covalent bonds. Water is a liquid at ambient conditions, but it often co-exists on Earth with its solid state, ice, and gaseous state (water vapor or steam).


Earth science – all-embracing term for the sciences related to the planet Earth. It is arguably a special case in planetary science, the Earth being the only known life-bearing planet.

Earth – planet you are on right now. Third planet from the Sun, the densest planet in the Solar System, the largest of the Solar System's four terrestrial planets, and the only astronomical object known to harbor life.
Geography – study of the Earth and its lands, features, inhabitants, and phenomena. A literal translation would be "to describe or write about the Earth".
Geology – study of the Earth, with the general exclusion of present-day life, flow within the ocean, and the atmosphere. The field of geology encompasses the composition, structure, physical properties, and history of Earth's components, and the processes by which they are shaped. Geologists typically study rock, sediment, soil, rivers, and natural resources.
Geophysics – physics of the Earth and its environment in space; also the study of the Earth using quantitative physical methods. Includes Earth's shape; its gravitational and magnetic fields; its internal structure and composition; its dynamics and their surface expression in plate tectonics, the generation of magmas, volcanism and rock formation.
Meteorology – study of the atmosphere, including study and forecasting of the weather.

Tropical cyclones – storm systems characterized by a large low-pressure center and numerous thunderstorms that produce strong winds and heavy rain.




Physics – study of matter and its motion through spacetime, along with related concepts such as energy and force. More broadly, it is the general analysis of nature, conducted in order to understand how the universe behaves.

Energy – scalar physical quantity that describes the amount of work that can be performed by a force. Energy is an attribute of objects and systems that is subject to a conservation law.


Space science

Astronomy – study of celestial objects (such as stars, planets, comets, nebulae, star clusters and galaxies) and phenomena that originate outside the Earth's atmosphere (such as the cosmic background radiation).

Solar System – gravitationally bound system comprising the Sun and the objects that orbit it, either directly or indirectly. Where the Earth is located (the third planet orbiting the Sun).

Mercury – closest planet to the sun.
Venus – second closest planet to the sun. It is a terrestrial planet.
Earth – home of the human race, and 3rd planet closest to the sun. It is the only planet known to support life.
Mars – terrestrial planet. Fourth closest planet to the sun.
Jupiter – gas giant, and fifth planet from the sun.
Saturn – gas giant, famous for its rings, and sixth planet from the sun.
Uranus – ice giant, and seventh planet from the sun.
Neptune – ice giant. Eighth and furthest planet from the sun.
















edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)


List of sciences • Superseded scientific theories
Biology  • Biological journals • Causes of death • Feeding behaviours • Human anatomy • Muscles • Protective human features • Gene families • Latin and Greek words commonly used in systematic names

Health science – (see Health and fitness section above)


Species and specimens -The World's 25 Most Endangered Primates • Domesticated animals • List of dinosaurs • Genera in Caesalpinioideae • Genera in Faboideae • Genera in Mimosoideae • Quercus species (oak) • Smilax species • Birds by region • Mammals by region • Utricularia species • Cryptids




Plants • Arecaceae Genera (palm tree family) • Acer species (maple) • Sequoia groves • Domesticated plants • Edible seeds • Famous trees • Flowers • Fruits • Garden plants • Herbs • Vegetables






Insects • Insects recorded in Britain






Fish • Fish in Sweden




Diseases - Banana and plantain diseases • Sweet potato diseases

Physical science

Astronomy • Telescope types • Largest optical refracting telescopes • Largest optical reflecting telescopes • Largest optical telescopes historically




Astronomical objects • Constellations • Constellations by area • Lunar craters • Meteor showers • Montes on Venus • Extrasolar planets • Galaxies • Moons of the solar system








Asteroids • List of noteworthy asteroids • Aten asteroids • Apollo asteroids • Amor asteroids • Asteroids with moons • Centaurs • Scattered-disk objects • Asteroids named after important people










Solar system objects • by mass • by radius










Stars • Brightest • Most luminous • Most massive • Largest • Least massive • Nearest • Traditional star names • Semiregular variable stars






Chemistry  • Biomolecules • Compounds • Enthalpy change of formation • Functional groups • Isotope table (divided) • Isotope table (complete) • Stable isotopes • Standard electrode potentials




Elements • by number • by symbol • Periodic table




Earth sciences

Geology  • Birthstones • Earthquakes • Landforms • Minerals • Oil fields • Uranium mines • Plate tectonics • Rocks • Tectonic plates • Volcanoes • Global Boundary Stratotype Sections and Points






Meteorology • Tropical cyclone names


Physics  • Artificial Radiation Belts • Colors • Cycles • Equations in classical mechanics • Laws in science • Letters used in mathematics and science • Noise • Particles • Relativistic equations • Satellites which have provided data on the magnetosphere • Resistivities








edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)


Science

History of Science • Philosophy of science • Systems science

Biological science

Agropedia • Amphibians and Reptiles • Animals • Arthropods • Astrobiology • Birds • Cats • Cetaceans • Crustaceans • Dinosaurs • Dogs • Ecology • Evolutionary biology • Extinct and Endangered Species • Fish • Forestry • Fungi • Gastropods • Horses • Insects  • Mammals • Marine life • Molecular Anthropology • Molecular and Cellular Biology (Metabolism, Gene wiki) • Neuroscience • Paleontology • Plants • Primates • Prehistoric mammals • Rabbits and hares • Sharks • Trees • Turtles • Viruses • Wildlife of Scotland • Wetlands

Physical science
Astronomy (Space, Solar System, Mars, Moon, Uranus, Jupiter, Star, X-ray astronomy) 
Chemistry (Analytical chemistry, Organic chemistry, Physical chemistry, Crystallography) 
Earth sciences (Atmospheric sciences, Earthquakes, Environment, Fire, Global warming, Tropical cyclones, Volcanoes and Volcanology, Weather, Water) 
Physics (Cosmology, Gravitation, Electromagnetism)








edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Biological sciences

Biology • Botany • Plant morphology • Insects • Ichthyology • Equestrian terms • Ecology (Invasion biology) • Gene Expression • Talking Glossary of Genetic Terms • Latin and Greek systematic names

Physical sciences

Astronomy • Chemistry • Classical physics • Climate change • Geology • Quantum mechanics (elementary) • Physics • Severe weather terminology (United States))








edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)


Main categories: Science, Natural sciences and Nature


Biology
Botany
Ecology
Health sciences
Medicine
Neuroscience
Zoology
See also the Health and fitness section above




Earth sciences
Atmospheric sciences
Geography
Geology
Geophysics
Oceanography




Nature
Animals
Environment
Humans
Life
Natural resources
Plants
Pollution




Physical sciences
Astronomy
Chemistry
Climate
Physics
Space
Universe




Scientific method
Scientists









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)



Main index: Science

 Biology:

Anatomy • Biochemistry • Botany • Cognitive science • Evolutionary biology • Genetics • Health and fitness • Immunology • Molecular biology • Neurobiology


Ecology:

Conservation
Sustainability




Zoology:

Physical science:

Astronomy • Chemistry


Physics

Biophysics • Energy • Optics




Earth science:

Geography  • Geology  • Meteorology









edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Natural_and_physical_sciences&oldid=653829044"					
Categories: Natural sciencesPhysical sciencesContent portalsScience portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 March 2015, at 01:13.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.204","walltime":"0.281","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1301,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":161164,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17387,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  151.144      1 -total"," 63.16%   95.462      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 36.78%   55.590      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 23.91%   36.132      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 19.87%   30.029      2 Template:Center"," 17.13%   25.892     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 10.57%   15.974      1 Template:Small"," 10.13%   15.318      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  6.20%    9.374      9 Template:Box-header-watch","  5.31%    8.020      8 Portal:Contents/box-header-topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.047","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1618820,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1213","timestamp":"20170210231843","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":353,"wgHostname":"mw1213"});});
