 







Portal:Contents/Philosophy and thinking

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Philosophy and thinking



Philosophy has almost as many definitions as there have been philosophers, both as a subject matter and an activity, and no simple definition can do it justice. The issue of the definition of philosophy is thus a controversial subject that is nowadays tackled by Metaphilosophy (or the philosophy of philosophy). The word is derived from the ancient Greek words philo-, to love or to befriend, and -sophia, wisdom. Modern usage of the term is much broader; the concept of philosophy encompasses all of knowledge and all that can be known, including the means by which such knowledge can be acquired. However, in the contemporary English-speaking academic world, the term is often used implicitly to refer to analytic philosophy and, in non-English speaking countries, it often refers implicitly to a different, European strain, continental philosophy. The ancient Greeks organized the subject into five basic categories: metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, politics and aesthetics. This organization of the subject is still largely in use in Western philosophy today.
Thought or thinking is a mental process which allows beings to model the world, and so to deal with it effectively according to their goals, plans, ends and desires. Words referring to similar concepts and processes in the English language include cognition, sentience, consciousness, idea, and imagination. Thinking involves the cerebral manipulation of information, as when we form concepts, engage in problem solving, reason and make decisions. Thinking is a higher cognitive function and the analysis of thinking processes is part of cognitive psychology.



The Philosophy Portal · The Thinking Portal



More about Philosophy and Thinking...









Philosophy and thinking: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy – Being • Common sense • Feminist philosophy • Futurology • Goodness and value theory • Happiness • -ism • Meaning of life • Mind • Rhetoric • Space • Unsolved problems in philosophy

By region – Eastern philosophy • Western philosophy


Branches of philosophy – Aesthetics • Ethics • Epistemology • Logic • Metaphysics


Subdisciplines of philosophy – Education • Geography • History • Human nature • Language • Law • Literature • Mathematics • Mind • Philosophy • Physics • Politics • Psychology • Religion • Science • Social science • Technology  • War  • Culture


Schools of philosophy – Analytic philosophy • Aristotelianism • Continental Philosophy • Critical theory • Deconstructivism • Determinism • Dialectical materialism • Empiricism • Existentialism • Hegelianism • Hermeneutics • Humanism • Idealism • Kantianism • Logical Positivism • Materialism • Neoplatonism • Nihilism • Objectivism (Ayn Rand) • Ordinary Language • Phenomenology • Platonism • Positivism • Postmodernism • Poststructuralism • Pragmatism • Presocratic • Rationalism • Reformational • Relativism • Scholasticism • Skepticism • Stoicism • Structuralism • Transhumanism  • Utilitarianism

Thinking – Awareness • Creative processes • Decision making • Heuristic • Learning • Memory • Problem solving • Reason • Teaching

Qualities of thought – Accuracy • Effectiveness • Efficacy • Efficiency • Frugality • Prudence • Right • Soundness • Validity • Value theory • Wrong


Thinking errors – Cognitive bias • Cognitive distortion • Error • Fallacy • Fallacies of definition • Logical fallacy • Target fixation


Related – Genius • High IQ society • Mensa • Nootropics • Philomath • Polymath








edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy – The study of general and fundamental problems concerning matters such as existence, knowledge, values, reason, mind, and language.
Branches of philosophy

Aesthetics – The study of the nature of beauty, art, and taste, and with the creation and appreciation of beauty.
Epistemology – The study of knowledge and belief.
Ethics – The study of the right, the good, and the valuable. Includes study of applied ethics.

Sexual ethics – The study of sexual relations rooted in particular behaviors and standards.


Logic – The study of good reasoning, by examining the validity of arguments and documenting their fallacies.
Metaphysics – traditional branch of philosophy concerned with explaining the fundamental nature of being and the world that encompasses it, although the term is not easily defined.

Philosophies

Atheism – the rejection of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is specifically the position that there are no deities.
Critical theory – examination and critique of society and culture, drawing from knowledge across the social sciences and humanities.
Humanism – approach in study, philosophy, worldview or practice that focuses on human values and concerns.
Transhumanism – international intellectual and cultural movement that affirms the possibility and desirability of fundamentally transforming the human condition by developing and making widely available technologies to eliminate aging and to greatly enhance human intellectual, physical, and psychological capacities. It is often abbreviated as H+ or h+.
Political philosophies:

Anarchism – political philosophy which considers the state undesirable, unnecessary, and harmful, and instead promotes a stateless society, or anarchy.
Libertarianism – political philosophy that advocates minimization of the government and maximization of individual liberty and political freedom.


Philosophical debates:

Creation–evolution controversy



Thought – mental or intellectual activity involving an individual's subjective consciousness. It can refer either to the act of thinking or the resulting ideas or arrangements of ideas.

Neuroscience – scientific study of the nervous system.
Psychology – science of behavior and mental processes.








edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy: Ethics • Logic • Epistemology • Metaphysics • Aesthetics • Philosophies • Philosophers

Philosophy list templates – Philosophy topics • History of Western Philosophy


Philosophical Timelines  – Philosophers → Eastern & Western








edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy
Areas of philosophical inquiry

Aesthetics • Epistemology • Ethics • Logic • Metaphysics • Mind and Brain (Thinking) • Philosophy of science • Social and political philosophy 

Philosophies and ideologies

Anarchism • Animal rights • Capitalism • Communism • Confucianism • Conservatism • Existentialism • Fascism • Liberalism • Libertarianism • Left-wing populism • Right-wing populism • Socialism • Taoism • Transhumanism









edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy (Heidegger)







edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)



Main categories: Philosophy and Thought



Philosophy
Branches
Schools and traditions
Movements
Concepts
Theories
Arguments
Philosophers
Literature
History
By period
By region
Aesthetics
Epistemology
Ethics
Logic
Metaphysics
Social philosophy




Thinking / Thinking skills
Attention
Cognition
Cognitive biases
Creativity
Decision theory
Emotion
Error
Imagination
Intelligence

researchers


Learning
Memory

biases
mnemonics


Nootropics (smart drugs)
Organizational thinking (strategic management)
Perception
Problem solving
Psychological adjustment
Psychometrics
Qualities of thought









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)


Philosophy: (A-C) • (D–H) • (D–H) • (R–Z)

By region

Eastern philosophy
Western philosophy

Continental philosophy






By period

Ancient philosophy
Medieval philosophy
Modern philosophy
Contemporary philosophy


Branches of philosophy – Aesthetics • Ethics • Epistemology • Logic • Metaphysics
Subdisciplines of philosophy – Philosophy of language • Philosophy of law • Philosophy of mind • Philosophy of politics • Philosophy of religion • Philosophy of science •


Schools of philosophy – Analytic philosophy • Continental philosophy • humanism







edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Philosophy_and_thinking&oldid=612924470"					
Categories: ThoughtPhilosophy portalsContent portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Español 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 14 June 2014, at 19:25.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.132","walltime":"0.196","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1292,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":123543,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17210,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  128.798      1 -total"," 59.14%   76.174      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 40.79%   52.538      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 25.97%   33.452      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 22.16%   28.536      2 Template:Center"," 18.98%   24.440     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 11.67%   15.026      3 Template:Small"," 11.50%   14.813      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  5.49%    7.071      9 Template:Box-header-watch","  4.79%    6.170      8 Portal:Contents/box-header-topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.040","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1618833,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1270","timestamp":"20170206160849","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":53,"wgHostname":"mw1172"});});
