 







Portal:Contents/Religion and belief systems

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Religion and belief systems



Religion is the adherence to codified beliefs and rituals that generally involve a faith in a spiritual nature and a study of inherited ancestral traditions, knowledge and wisdom related to understanding human life. The term "religion" refers to both the personal practices related to faith as well as to the larger shared systems of belief.
A belief system can refer to a religion or a world view. A world view (or worldview) is a term calqued from the German word Weltanschauung ( [ˈvɛlt.ʔanˌʃaʊ.ʊŋ] (help·info)) Welt is the German word for 'world,' and Anschauung is the German word for 'view' or 'outlook'. It is a concept fundamental to German philosophy and epistemology and refers to a wide world perception. Additionally, it refers to the framework of ideas and beliefs through which an individual interprets the world and interacts in it.



The Religion Portal



More about Religion and Belief systems...









Religion and belief systems: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)



Main article: Religion  See also: Relationship between religion and science

Allah • Belief • Biblical inspiration • Buddha • Confucius • Deity • Demon • Devil • Exorcism • Heresy • Inspiration • Faith • God • Jesus • Holy Spirit • Morality • Mormon • Mythology • Occult • Prayer • Prophecy • Revelation • Ritual • Sin • Supernatural • Virtue 
Belief Systems – Acosmism • Agnosticism • Animism • Antitheism • Atheism • Binitarianism • Deism • Determinism • Duotheism • Esotericism • Eutheism and dystheism • Freethought • Gnosticism • Henotheism • Humanism • Interfaith • Ignosticism • Kathenotheism • Monism • Mormon • Monotheism • Monolatrism • Mysticism • Neopaganism • New Age • Nondualism • Nontheism • Objectivism • Pandeism • Panentheism • Pantheism • Pastafarianism  Polydeism • Polytheism • Secular • Skepticism • Spiritualism • Spirituality • Theism • Theopanism • Theosophy • Transcendentalism • Transtheism • Trinitarianism • Unitarianism
Major beliefs of the world  – Antireligion • Ayyavazhi • Bahá'í Faith • Buddhism • Cao Dai • Chinese folk religion • Christianity • Confucianism • Diasporic • Falun Gong • Hellenismos • Hinduism • Irreligious • Islam • Jainism • Judaism • Neopaganism • Polytheistic reconstructionism •Rastafari • Scientology • Sikhism • Spiritism • Shinto • Taoism • Tenrikyo • The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints • Unitarian Universalism • Zoroastrianism
See also: Criticism of religion







edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Religion – collection of cultural systems, belief systems, and worldviews that establishes symbols that relate humanity to spirituality and sometimes to moral values.

World's religions:

Abrahamic religions:

Judaism – "religion, philosophy, and way of life" of the Jewish people. Originating in the Hebrew Bible (also known as the Tanach) and explored in later texts such as the Talmud, it is considered by religious Jews to be the expression of the covenantal relationship God developed with the Children of Israel.

Jewish law – the collective body of Jewish religious laws derived from the Written and Oral Torah.


Christianity – monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus as presented in canonical gospels and other New Testament writings.

Bible – the holy text of Christianity
Catholicism – Catholicism is the largest denomination of Christianity. It holds that its Bishops are the successors of the Apostles of Jesus and its Pope the successor of St Peter, and Mary the mother of Jesus is venerated. The term Catholicism broadly denotes the varying body of traditions, nations, demographics and behaviours generally subscribed to the Faith.

Catholic ecumenical councils


Protestantism – Protestantism is a broad term, usually used for Christians who are not of the Catholic, Anglican, or Eastern Churches. However, some consider Anglicanism to be Protestant, and some consider Radical Reformism not to be Protestant.
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints – The largest denomination of the Latter Day Saint movement, an American restorationist movement. Members are known as "Mormons".

Book of Mormon – the earliest distinctive scripture of the Latter Day Saint movement.

Joseph Smith – the founding Prophet of the Latter Day Saint movement.






Islam – monotheistic religion articulated by the Qur’an, a text considered by its adherents to be the verbatim word of one God, Allah (Arabic: الله Allāh), and by the teachings and normative example (called the Sunnah and composed of Hadith) of Muhammad, considered by them to be the last prophet of Allah.
Bahá'í Faith – a monotheistic religion founded by Baha'u'llah in the 19th century, proclaims Spiritual unity of mankind


East Asian religions:

Confucianism – a Chinese system of philosophical and "ethical-sociopolitical teachings" sometimes described as a religion.
Shinto – an ethnic religion of the people of Japan.
Taoism – a religious and philosophical tradition of Chinese origin with an emphasis on living in harmony with, and in accordance to the natural flow or cosmic structural order of the universe commonly referred to as the Tao.


Indian religions:

Buddhism – religion and philosophy encompassing a variety of traditions, beliefs and practices, largely based on teachings attributed to Siddhartha Gautama, commonly known as the Buddha (Pāli/Sanskrit "the awakened one").
Hinduism – predominant and indigenous religious tradition), amongst many other expressions.

Ayyavazhi – Henotheistic belief that originated in South India. It is cited as an independent monistic religion by several newspapers, government reports and academic researchers. In Indian censuses, however, the majority of its followers declare themselves as Hindus. Therefore, Ayyavazhi is also considered a Hindu denomination.


Ayyavazhi – Henotheistic belief that originated in South India. It is cited as an independent monistic religion by several newspapers, government reports and academic researchers. In Indian censuses, however, the majority of its followers declare themselves as Hindus. Therefore, Ayyavazhi is also considered a Hindu denomination.
Jainism – an ancient Indian religion.
Sikhism – monotheistic religion founded during the 15th century in the Punjab region, on the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev Ji and ten successive Sikh Gurus (the last teaching being the holy scripture Guru Granth Sahib Ji).


Contemporary Paganism - a contemporary set of beliefs modelled on the ancient pagan religions (usually of Europe or the Near East).




Religious debates:

Creation–evolution controversy – recurring theological and cultural-political dispute about the origins of the Earth, humanity, life, and the universe, between the proponents of evolution, backed by scientific consensus, and those who espouse the validity and/or superiority of literal interpretations of a creation myth. The dispute particularly involves the field of evolutionary biology, but also the fields of geology, palaeontology, thermodynamics, nuclear physics and cosmology.
Theology – systematic and rational study of religion and its influences and of the nature of religious truths, or the learned profession acquired by completing specialized training in religious studies, usually at a university or school of divinity or seminary.

Christian theology – enterprise to construct a coherent system of Christian belief and practice based primarily upon the texts of the Old Testament and the New Testament as well as the historic traditions of the faithful. Christian theologians use biblical exegesis, rational analysis, and argument to clarify, examine, understand, explicate, critique, defend or promote Christianity.






Religious issues:

Death – end of physical life




Irreligion – absence of religious belief, or indifference or hostility to religion, or active rejection of religious traditions.

Atheism – rejection of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is specifically the position that there are no deities. Most inclusively, atheism is simply the absence of belief that any deities exist. Atheism is contrasted with theism, which in its most general form is the belief that at least one deity exists.
Secular humanism – embraces human reason, ethics, and justice while specifically rejecting religious dogma, supernaturalism, pseudoscience or superstition as the basis of morality and decision-making.




Spirituality – can refer to an ultimate or an alleged immaterial reality; an inner path enabling a person to discover the essence of his/her being; or the “deepest values and meanings by which people live.”








edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)


Major religious groups • Religions and spiritual traditions

Angels • Ayyavazhi • Bible stories • Biblical names • Cathedrals • Christian denominations • Deities • Demons • Indigetes (Roman gods & goddesses)  • Founders • Greek mythological characters • Hinduism • Jesus • Dramatic portrayals of Jesus Christ • People claimed to be Jesus • Languages by year of first Bible translation • Monasteries dissolved by Henry VIII of England • Mormonism • Biblical nameless • Patriarchs of Antioch • Patriarchs of Constantinople • Popes • Sexually active popes • Saints • 613 Mitzvot• Israelites







edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)





Religion (Spirituality, Occult)
Abrahamic religions

Christianity

Adventism • Anabaptism • Anglicanism • Arminianism • Baptist • Bible • Calvinism • Catholicism • Christadelphians • Christianity in China • Christianity in India • Eastern Christianity • Lutheranism • Methodism • Oriental Orthodoxy • Pope • Private revelation • Saints • Seventh-day Adventist Church






Latter Day Saints

Book of Mormon • LDS Church • Community of Christ






Islam

Shia Islam • Day Of Ashura • Ahmadiyyat • Qur'an • Islam in China • Sufism


Judaism

Kabbalah


Creationism

Non-Abrahamic religions
Indian religions

Ayyavazhi
Buddhism

Mahayana Buddhism • Tibetan Buddhism • Vajrayana Buddhism • Theravada Buddhism
Gnosticism


Hinduism

Hindu Mythology 


Jainism

Digambara
Śvētāmbara


Sikhism




Religions and traditions with East Asian origin

Chinese Folk Religion
Confucianism •
Shinto •
Taoism •
Falun Gong

Religions with West Asian origin

Zoroastrianism
Bábism
Bahá'í Faith

New religions

Scientology • Falun Gong 
Theosophy

Religions with European origin

Heathenism
Hellenismos

Greek Mythology


Wicca

Traditional African religions

African

Serer



Other

Astrology • Mythology

Non Religion or Belief

Atheism • Nontheism











edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Ancient Roman religion • Buddhism • Christianity • Hinduism • Islam • Jewish • Spirituality







edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)


Main categories: Religion and Belief


Allah
Bible
Buddhas
Deities
Demons
Exorcism
God
Jesus
Mythology
Occult
Prayer
Prophecy
Quran
Religious ethics
Religious law
Ritual
Spirituality
Theology




Belief systems
Religious faiths, traditions, and movements
Agnosticism
Animism
Atheism
Deism
Determinism
Esotericism
Gnosticism
Humanism
Monism
Monotheism
Mysticism
New Age
Paganism
Pantheism
Polytheism
Shamanism
Skepticism
Spiritualism
Theosophy
Transcendentalism
Unitarianism




Major beliefs of the world
Agnosticism
Atheism
Ayyavazhi
Bahá'í Faith
Buddhism
Cao Dai
Chinese folk religion
Christianity
Confucianism
Druidry
Falun Gong
Hinduism
Islam
Jainism
Judaism
Mormonism
Neo-druidism
Neopaganism
Rastafarianism
Satanism
Scientology
Shinto
Sikhism
Spiritism
Taoism
Tenrikyo
Unitarian Universalism
Wicca
Zoroastrianism




Mythology
Mythology by culture
Abrahamic mythology
Buddhist mythology
Christian mythology
Hindu mythology
Islamic mythology
Jewish mythology




See also: Criticism of religion









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)



Main index: Index of religion-related articles

Belief Systems – Acosmism • Agnosticism • Animism • Anti-Catholic • Antitheism • Atheism • Binitarianism • Deism • Determinism • Duotheism • Esotericism • Eutheism • Freethought • Gnosticism • Henotheism • Humanism • Ignosticism • Kathenotheism • Monism • Monotheism • Monolatrism • Mysticism • New Age • Nondualism • Nontheism • Pandeism • Panentheism • Pantheism • Polydeism • Polytheism • Secularism • Skepticism • Spiritualism • Theism • Theopanism • Theosophy • Transcendentalism • Transtheism • Trinitarianism • Unitarianism
Major religious groups  –

Antireligion
Ayyavazhi
Bahá'í Faith
Buddhism
Cao Dai
Chinese folk religion
Christianity

Catholicism
Eastern Christianity
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


Confucianism
Diasporic
Falun Gong
Hinduism
Irreligion
Islam
Neopaganism
Jainism
Judaism
Rastafari
Scientology
Sikhism
Spiritism
Shinto
Taoism
Tenrikyo
Unitarian Universalism
Zoroastrianism







edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Religion_and_belief_systems&oldid=603595082"					
Categories: ReligionBeliefContent portalsReligion portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portalsArticles including recorded pronunciations 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


বাংলা 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 10 April 2014, at 13:35.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.148","walltime":"0.214","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1327,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":153675,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17532,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  123.643      1 -total"," 60.64%   74.973      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 39.30%   48.597      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 23.09%   28.550      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 20.70%   25.593      2 Template:Center"," 17.87%   22.094     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 11.00%   13.596      1 Template:Small"," 10.48%   12.962      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  6.14%    7.594      9 Template:Box-header-watch","  5.27%    6.521      8 Portal:Contents/box-header-topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.037","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1644349,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1258","timestamp":"20170206170944","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":63,"wgHostname":"mw1180"});});
