 







Portal:Contents/Society and social sciences

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Society and social sciences



A society is a group of people who form a semi-closed system. At its simplest, the term society refers to a large group of people sharing their own culture and institutions. A society is a network of relationships between people. The English word society is derived from the French société, which had its origin in the Latin societas, a "friendly association with others," from socius meaning "companion, associate, comrade or business partner." Thus, the meaning of society is closely related to what is considered to be social. Implicit in the meaning of society is that its members may share some mutual concern or interest, a common objective or common characteristics. The social sciences generally use the term society to mean a group of people who form a semi-closed social system, in which most interactions are with other individuals belonging to the group. More abstractly, a society is defined as a network of relationships between social entities. A society is also sometimes defined as an interdependent community, but the sociologist Tönnies sought to draw a contrast between society and community. An important feature of society is social structure, aspects of which include roles and social ranking.
The social science are a group of academic disciplines that study human aspects of the world. They differ from the arts and the humanities, in that the social science tend to emphasize the use of the scientific method in the study of humanity, including quantitative and qualitative methods.



The Society Portal · The Science Portal



More about Society and Social science...









Society and social sciences: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)



Main articles: Social sciences and Society  See also Science and Scientific method

Social sciences – Anthropology • Archaeology • Cognitive science • Communication studies • Critical theory • Cultural studies • Development studies • Economics (Unsolved problems in economics) • Education • Geography • History • Linguistics  (Unsolved problems in linguistics) • Law • Political science • Psychology • Social policy • Sociology
Society – Ethnic groups • Group • Infrastructure • People

Community – Structure and agency • Socialization • Sense of community • Communitarianism • Social capital • Community development
Social development – Decadence • Social progress • Technological evolution

Sociocultural evolution : Hunter-gatherer bands → Social rank → Tribes → Social stratification → Chiefdoms → Neolithic Revolution → Civilization → Agrarian society → Pre-industrial society → Agrarian villages → Towns → Cities → City-states → Nation-states → Industrial Revolution → (Modern) Industrial society → (Postmodern) Post-industrial society → Informational Revolution → Information society → Digital Revolution → Globalization → World government? → Space colonization? → Technological singularity?


Social institutions – Organization

Family – Daughter • Extended family • Father • Grandparent • Home • Human bonding • Mother • Nuclear family • Parent • Son
Religion – (see Religion and belief systems above)
Infrastructure

Public infrastructure – Highways • Streets • Roads • Bridges • Mass transit • Airports and Airways • Rail transport • Water supply and Water resources • Wastewater management • Solid-waste treatment and disposal • Electric power
Private infrastructure – Automobiles • Homes • Personal computers • Personal property • Real estate


Economy and Business – Finance • Management • Marketing • Franchising
Education – Academia • Academic misconduct • Homework • Learning • Pedagogy • School • Student • Study skills • Teacher
Civil society 
Government and Politics – Politics by country • International relations • Public affairs
Law – Criminal justice 


Social network – Communication • Journalism • Social capital








edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Social science – study of the world and its cultures and civilizations. Social science has many branches, each called a "social science". Some of the major social sciences are:

Anthropology – study of how humans developed biologically and culturally.
Archaeology – study of human cultures through the recovery, documentation, and analysis of material remains and environmental data, including architecture, artifacts, biofacts, human remains, and landscapes.
Economics – study of how people satisfy their wants and needs. Economics is also the study of supply and demand.
Futures studies – seeks to understand what is likely to continue and what could plausibly change
Geography – study of physical environments and how people live in them.
History – study of the past.
Law – set of rules and principles by which a society is governed. (For branches, see Law under Society below).

Civil law – non-criminal law, in common law countries. It pertains to lawsuits, civil liability, etc.


Linguistics – study of natural languages.

Principles of interpretation –


Political science – study of different forms of government and the ways citizens relate to them.
Psychology – study of mental processes and behavior.

Abnormal psychology –
Human intelligence – mental capacities of human beings to reason, plan, problem solve, think, comprehend ideas, use languages, and learn.
Human sexuality – impacts and is impacted upon by cultural, political, legal, philosophical, moral, ethical, and religious aspects of life. Sexual activity is a vital principle of human living that connects the desires, pleasures, and energy of the body with a knowledge of human intimacy.


Semiotics – study of symbols and how they relate to one another.
Sociology – study of the formation of human societies and social organizations, their structure, and the interaction and behavior of people in organized groups.

Society – group of people sharing the same geographical or virtual territory and therefore subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Such people share a distinctive culture and institutions, which characterize the patterns of social relations between them.

Community – group of interacting people, possibly living in close proximity, and often refers to a group that shares some common values, and is attributed with social cohesion within a shared geographical location, generally in social units larger than a household.

LGBT – lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community


Business – organization engaged in the trade of goods, services, or both to consumers for the purpose of making a profit.

Actuarial science – discipline that applies mathematical and statistical methods to assess risk in the insurance and finance industries.
Business administration – also called "business management", this comprises planning, organizing, staffing, and directing a company's operations in order to achieve its goals.

Finance – funds management, including raising capital to fund an enterprise.
Marketing – process used to determine what products or services may be of interest to customers, and the strategy to use in sales, communications and business development. It generates the strategy that underlies sales techniques, business communication, and business developments.
Production – creating 'use' value or 'utility' that can satisfy a want or need. Any effort directed toward the realization of a desired product or service is a "productive" effort and the performance of such an act is production.
Project management – discipline of initiating, planning, executing, controlling, and closing the work of a team to achieve specific goals and meet specific success criteria. A project is a temporary endeavor to produce a unique product, service or result with a defined beginning and end. The temporary nature of projects stands in contrast with business as usual (or operations).


Economics – analyzes the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. It aims to explain how economies work and how economic agents interact.
Industrial organization – studies the structure of and boundaries between firms and markets and the strategic interactions of firms.


Communication – activity of conveying meaningful information, which requires a sender, a message, and an intended recipient.

Journalism – gathering, processing, and dissemination of news and information related to the news to an audience. It includes both the method of inquiring for news and the literary style which is used to disseminate it.

Environmental journalism – collection, verification, production, distribution and exhibition of information regarding current events, trends, issues and people that are associated with the non-human world with which humans necessarily interact.


Public relations – practice of managing the spread of information between an individual or an organization (such as a business, government agency, or a nonprofit organization) and the public.


Education – any act or experience that has a formative effect on the mind, character, or physical of an individual. In its technical sense, education is the process by which society deliberately transmits its accumulated knowledge, skills, and values from one generation to another. Education can also be defined as the process of becoming an educated person.

Academia – nationally and internationally recognized establishment of professional scholars and students, usually centered around colleges and universities, who are engaged in higher education and research.

Harvard University – private Ivy League university located in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, established in 1636 by the Massachusetts legislature. Harvard is the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States and the first corporation (officially The President and Fellows of Harvard College) chartered in that country.


Open educational resources –
Second-language acquisition – process by which people learn a second language.


Globalization – process of international integration arising from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of culture.
Politics – process by which groups of people make collective decisions. The term is generally applied to the art or science of running governmental or state affairs, including behavior within civil governments, but also applies to institutions, fields, and special interest groups such as the corporate, academic, and religious segments of society.

Political ideologies:

Environmentalism – broad philosophy, ideology and social movement regarding concerns for environmental conservation and improvement of the health of the environment, particularly as the measure for this health seeks to incorporate the concerns of non-human elements.
Green politics – political ideology that aims for the creation of an ecologically sustainable society rooted in environmentalism, social liberalism, and grassroots democracy.


Government types:

Democracy – form of government in which all the people have an equal say in the decisions that affect their lives.


International organizations:

United Nations


Political movements:

Psychiatric survivors movement


Public affairs – public policy and public administration. Public policy is a principled guide to action taken by the administrative or executive branches of a state with regard to issues in a manner consistent with law and institutional customs. Public administration is "the management of public programs"; the "translation of politics into the reality that citizens see every day"; and "the study of government decision making, the analysis of the policies themselves, the various inputs that have produced them, and the inputs necessary to produce alternative policies."


Law – A set of rules and principles by which a society is governed.

Commercial law – body of law that governs business and commercial transactions.
Criminal justice – system of practices and institutions of governments directed at upholding social control, deterring and mitigating crime, or sanctioning those who violate laws with criminal penalties and rehabilitation efforts. Those accused of crime have protections against abuse of investigatory and prosecution powers.

Crime –

Domestic violence – violence between partners in a close relationship (marriage, family, dating and so on). This form of violence can manifest itself in a variety of ways.
Forgery –


Law enforcement – any system by which some members of society act in an organized manner to promote adherence to the law by discovering and punishing persons who violate the rules and norms governing that society. The term usually refers to organizations that engage in patrols or surveillance to dissuade and discover criminal activity, and to those who investigate crimes and apprehend offenders.


Intellectual property – distinct types of creations of the mind for which a set of exclusive rights are recognized—and the corresponding fields of law.

Patents –


Tort law – laws and legal procedures dealing with torts. In common law jurisdictions, a tort is a civil wrong that involves a breach of a civil duty (other than a contractual duty) owed to someone else. A tort is differentiated from a crime, which involves a breach of a duty owed to society in general. Though many acts are both torts and crimes, prosecutions for crime are mostly the responsibility of the state; whereas any party who has been injured may bring a lawsuit for tort.
Law of the United States

Evidence law in the United States –
United States federal Indian law and policy –




Rights – legal, social, or ethical principles of freedom or entitlement; that is, rights are the fundamental normative rules about what is allowed of people or owed to people, according to some legal system, social convention, or ethical theory.








edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)


Business: Corporate assets • Product failures • Strikes • Stock market indices • Store brands • Traded commodities • U.S. states by unemployment rate • European sovereign-debt crisis: List of acronyms

Businesses, Organizations, and Companies: Assets owned by Microsoft Corporation • Assets owned by The Coca-Cola Company • British natural gas companies • Cooperatives • Banks • Department stores • Employee-owned companies• Employer associations • Fictional Microsoft companies • Stock exchanges • Supermarkets • Think tanks • Trade unions


Business people: Business theorists • Economists

Economics: Economists

National accounts: Countries by nominal GDP • Countries by nominal GDP per capita • Countries by PPP GDP • Countries by PPP GDP per capita

Education: Academic disciplines • Fields of doctoral studies • Admissions tests • Universities and colleges • Schools by country • School and university in literature
Environmental issues
Law: Case law • Civics • International public law
Linguistics: Languages • English words • Acronyms • Consonants • Vowels (table) • Hieroglyphs • Emoticons • French words and phrases used by English speakers • Phonetics • Shibboleths • Symbols • Writing systems
Organizations: British professional bodies • Civic, fraternal, service, and professional organizations • Employer associations • Environmental organizations • LGBT-related organizations • Trade unions • United States Mints • Women's organizations
Politics: by country • Political parties (Generic names of political parties) • National legislatures • National anthems • Green topics • Intelligence agencies • Secret police organizations • United Nations member states • United States federal agencies • Current members of the United States Congress • List of US Presidents with facial hair • Micronations • Scandals with "-gate" suffix
Psychology (Lists): Autism • Clinical Psychologists • Cognitive biases • Credentials in psychology • DSM-IV Codes • DSM-IV Codes (alphabetical) • Drugs • Emotions • Famous figures in psychiatry • Fictional psychiatrists • Mental illnesses • Memory biases • NLP-related articles • neurological disorders • Psychiatric drugs • Psychiatric drugs by condition treated • Psychology disciplines • Psychological schools • Psychologists • Psychotherapies • Publications in psychology • Scientific journals in psychology • Web experiments
Social psychology: Social psychologists
Sociology: Children's rights • Ethnic groups • Feminism • Feminist economists • Lifestyles • Social science journals • Sociologists • Subfields of sociology • Timeline of sociology • Youth rights
Society: Guide Dog Schools • Honorary societies • Prizes, medals, and awards
Urban studies - Public utilities







edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)


Social sciences

Anthropology (Archaeology) • Economics • Education • Geography • History • Law • Linguistics • Psychology • Sociology

Society

Cooperatives • Disability • Discrimination • Economics and business  • Education (Schools, University, University of Cambridge, University of Oxford, University of Pittsburgh) • Environment • Ethnic groups: African American, Berbers, Celts, Hispanic and Latino Americans, Indigenous peoples of the Americas, Indigenous peoples of North America, Aboriginal Canadians •  Feminism •  Folklore • Freedom of speech • Freemasonry • Gender studies • Genealogy • Globalization • Holidays • Hunger relief • Journalism • LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender) • (Transgender) • Men's rights • Social movements • Sustainable development • Terrorism • Transhumanism • Transnational child protection
Law

Criminal justice• Human rights • Law of England and Wales• Laws in India • Supreme Court of the United States




Politics and Political science

Anarchism • Animal rights • British politics • Capitalism • Communism • Canadian politics • Christian democracy • Conservatism • Fascism • Geert Wilders • India Government • Right-wing populism • International organizations: (United Nations  • NATO • SAARC) • Organized Labour • Pakistan Government • Philippine Presidency • U.S. Government (Barack Obama) • Donald Trump  • Social welfare and social work




Military science

Canadian Forces • Military of Greece • Military of Australia • Military of the United Kingdom (British Army • Royal Navy • Royal Air Force) • Military of the United States (United States Air Force • United States Army • United States Coast Guard • United States Marine Corps • United States Navy) • Tank • Half-track • War • Weapons of mass destruction











edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Corporate • Education • Law enforcement • Legal (Legal Latin terms) • UK mortgage • US Mortgage
Languages and slang


Main list: Lists of English words

Quebec French • Language teaching terms and ideas • Rhetorical terms • Alternative words for British • Greek words for love • Case-sensitive English words • Chicano Caló words and expressions • Dacian words • English words containing Q not followed by U • English words with disputed usage • Plain English words and phrases • French words of Arabic origin • Frequently misused English words • Replaced loan words in Turkish • Self-contradicting words in English • Longest English words with one syllable • Words derived from toponyms • Words having different meanings in British and American English • Words that may be spelled with a ligature • Words without vowel letters
Slang

Slang for police officers • Puerto Rican slang • South African slang • Wobbly lingo

English dialects

American words not widely used in the United Kingdom • Australian English terms for food and drink • Australian English terms for people • British words not widely used in the United States • New Zealand English and Māori

English words of...

African origin • Afrikaans origin • Arabic origin • Australian Aboriginal origin • Celtic origin • Chinese origin • Czech origin • Dutch origin • Etruscan origin • Finnish origin • French origin • German expressions • German loan words • German origin • Germanic and Latinate equivalents • Greek derivation • Hawaiian origin • Hebrew origin • Hungarian origin • Indian origin (Sanskrit, Tamil, Hindi, Urdu, Telugu) • Indonesian origin • Irish origin • Irish • Japanese origin • Korean origin • Latin derivation • Malay origin • Maori origin • Native American origin • Norwegian origin • Old Norse origin • Persian origin • Polish origin • Portuguese origin • Romanian origin • Russian origin • Sami origin • Scots origin • Scottish origin • Scottish Gaelic origin • Serbo-Croatian origin • Slovak origin • Spanish origin • Swedish origin • Turkic origin • Ukrainian origin • Welsh origin • Yiddish origin

Spanish words of...

Austronesian origin • Basque/Iberian origin • Celtic origin • Chinese origin • Etruscan origin • French origin • Indigenous American Indian origin • Indo-Aryan origin • Iranian origin • Nahuatl origin • Semitic origin • Turkic origin • uncertain origin • various origins

Other origins

Ainu terms • Exported Arabic terms • Chinook Jargon • Christian terms in Arabic • Islamic terms in Arabic • Gairaigo and wasei-eigo terms • Japanese words of Dutch origin • Japanese words of Portuguese origin • Loan words in Indonesian • Loan words in Sri Lankan Tamil • Sinhala words of Dutch origin • Sinhala words of Portuguese origin • Sinhala words of Tamil origin • Sinhalese words of English Origin

Discrimination

List of anti-ethnic and anti-national terms • List of disability-related terms with negative connotations • Offensive terms per nationality









edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)



Main categories: Society and Social sciences



Society
Activism
Business
Communication
Crime
Education
Ethnic groups
Family
Finance
Globalization
Government
Health
Home
Industries
Infrastructure


Law
Mass media
Military
Money
Organizations
Peace
Politics
Real estate
Rights
War




Social sciences
Anthropology
Archaeology
Cultural studies
Demographics
Economics
Information science
International relations
Linguistics
Media studies
Political science
Psychology
Public administration
Sexology
Social scientists
Sociology
Social work
Systems theory









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)



Main articles: Social sciences and Society  See also Science and Scientific method

Social science

Anthropology
Archaeology
Cognitive science
Communication studies
Critical theory
Cultural studies
Development studies
Economics

Accounting

Auditing


International trade
Theory of Constraints


Education
Geography
History
Linguistics

Index of phonetics articles


Law

Tort law


Political science
Psychology

Psychometrics
Sexology

BDSM




Social policy
Sociology

Urban sociology

Urban studies





Society

Politics

Civics
Masculism
Youth rights


Waste management







edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Society_and_social_sciences&oldid=665681893"					
Categories: Social sciencesContent portalsSocietySociety portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 5 June 2015, at 22:43.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.172","walltime":"0.241","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1283,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":201605,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17272,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  116.110      1 -total"," 62.22%   72.238      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 37.73%   43.804      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 23.19%   26.931      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 20.68%   24.016      2 Template:Center"," 17.79%   20.655     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 11.04%   12.817      1 Template:Small"," 10.51%   12.200      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  6.50%    7.548      9 Template:Box-header-watch","  5.60%    6.502      8 Portal:Contents/box-header-topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.034","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1638450,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1250","timestamp":"20170206160839","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":59,"wgHostname":"mw1219"});});
