 







Portal:Contents/Technology and applied sciences

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
< Portal:Contents

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology






edit  watch  
Wikipedia's contents: Technology and applied sciences



Technology is an expanded concept that deals with a species' usage and knowledge of tools and crafts, and how it affects a species' ability to control and adapt to its environment. In human civilization, it is a consequence of science and engineering, although several technological advances predate the formalization of these two disciplines. The term can either be applied generally or to specific areas – examples include construction technology, medical technology, or state-of-the-art technology.
The human race's use of technology began with the conversion of plentiful natural resources into simple tools. The prehistorical discovery of the ability to control fire increased the available sources of food, and the invention of the wheel helped humans in travelling in and controlling their environment. Recent technological developments, including the printing press and the Internet, have lessened physical barriers to communication and allowed humans to interact on a global scale. However, not all technology has been used for peaceful purposes; the development of weapons of ever-increasing destructive power has progressed throughout history, from clubs to nuclear bombs.
Applied science is the application of knowledge from one or more natural scientific fields to solving practical problems. For example, fields of engineering are applied sciences. Applied science is important for technology development. Its use in industrial settings is usually referred to as research and development (R&D).



The Technology Portal



More about Technology and Applied sciences...









Technology and applied sciences: Overview • Lists • Outlines • Portals • Categories • Glossaries • Indexes


edit  watch  
 Overview   (see for all subject areas)


Main articles: Technology and Applied science
Technological concepts and issues – Appropriate technology • Diffusion of innovations in science • Doomsday device • High technology • History of science and technology • History of technology • Industry • Innovation • Knowledge economy • Persuasion technology • Pollution • Posthumanism • Precautionary principle • Research and development • Strategy of technology • Superpowers • Technicism • Technocapitalism • Technocriticism • Techno-progressivism • Technological convergence • Technological evolution • Technological determinism • Technological diffusion • Technological singularity • Technology acceptance model • Technology assessment • Technology lifecycle • Technology transfer • Technology Tree • Technorealism • Timeline of invention • Transhumanism
Technologies and applied sciences – Aerospace • Agriculture, Agricultural science & Agronomy • Architecture • Artificial intelligence • Automation • Automobile • Big Science • Biotechnology • Cartography • Communication • Computing (Computer science (List of open problems in computer science), Information systems, Information technology, Programming, Software engineering, Computer engineering) • Construction • Design • Electronics • Energy development • Energy storage • Engineering (Chemical engineering, Civil engineering, Electrical engineering, Mechanical engineering) • Ergonomics • Firefighting • Food science • Forensics • Forestry • Free software • Health sciences • Health Informatics • Industry • Information science (Library and information science) • Internet • Machines • Management • Manufacturing • Mass communication • Mass production • Medicine (Unsolved problems in neuroscience) • Military science • Military technology and equipment • Mining • Nanotechnology • Nuclear technology • Packaging and labeling • Processes • Robotics • Space exploration • Technology forecasting • Telecommunications • Tools • Transport • Vehicles • Weapons, eCommerce







edit  watch  
 Outlines   (see for all subject areas)


Applied science – application of scientific knowledge transferred into a physical environment. Examples include testing a theoretical model through the use of formal science or solving a practical problem through the use of natural science.
Technology – making, usage, and knowledge of tools, machines, techniques, crafts, systems or methods of organization in order to solve a problem or perform a specific function. It can also refer to the collection of such tools, machinery, and procedures.
Technologies and applied sciences

Aerospace – flight or transport above the surface of the Earth.

Space exploration – the physical investigation of the space more than 100 km above the Earth by either manned or unmanned spacecraft.
Space technology – technology developed by space science or the aerospace industry for use in spaceflight, satellites, or space exploration. Space technology includes spacecraft, satellites, space stations, and support infrastructure, equipment, and procedures.


Applied physics – physics which is intended for a particular technological or practical use. It is usually considered as a bridge or a connection between "pure" physics and engineering.

Meteorology – forecasts the weather


Agriculture – cultivation of plants, animals, and other living organisms.

Fishing – activity of trying to catch fish. Fish are normally caught in the wild. Techniques for catching fish include hand gathering, spearing, netting, angling and trapping.

Fisheries – a fishery is an entity engaged in raising or harvesting fish which is determined by some authority to be a fishery. According to the FAO, a fishery is typically defined in terms of the "people involved, species or type of fish, area of water or seabed, method of fishing, class of boats, purpose of the activities or a combination of the foregoing features".
Fishing industry – industry or activity concerned with taking, culturing, processing, preserving, storing, transporting, marketing or selling fish or fish products. It is defined by the FAO as including recreational, subsistence and commercial fishing, and the harvesting, processing, and marketing sectors.


Forestry – art and science of tree resources, including plantations and natural stands. The main goal of forestry is to create and implement systems that allow forests to continue a sustainable provision of environmental supplies and services.
Organic gardening and farming – a method of crop and livestock production that involves much more than choosing not to use pesticides, fertilizers, genetically modified organisms, antibiotics and growth hormones.
Sustainable agriculture – farming in sustainable ways based on an understanding of ecosystem services, and the study of relationships between organisms and their environment.


Communication – the imparting or exchanging of information by speaking, writing, or using some other medium.

Books – A book is a set of written, printed, illustrated, or blank sheets, made of ink, paper, parchment, or other materials, fastened together to hinge at one side
Telecommunication – the transfer of information at a distance, including signaling, telegraphy, telephony, telemetry, radio, television, and data communications.

Radio – Aural or encoded telecommunications.
Internet – the global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP).
Television broadcasting – Visual and aural telecommunications.




Computing – any goal-oriented activity requiring, benefiting from, or creating computers. Computing includes designing and building hardware and software systems; processing, structuring, and managing various kinds of information; doing scientific research on and with computers; making computer systems behave intelligently; creating and using communications and entertainment media; and more.

Computer engineering – discipline that integrates several fields of electrical engineering and computer science required to develop computer systems, from designing individual microprocessors, personal computers, and supercomputers, to circuit design.

Computers – general purpose devices that can be programmed to carry out a finite set of arithmetic or logical operations. Since a sequence of operations can be readily changed, computers can solve more than one kind of problem.


Computer science – the study of the theoretical foundations of information and computation and of practical techniques for their implementation and application in computer systems.

Artificial intelligence – intelligence of machines and the branch of computer science that aims to create it.

Computer vision – interdisciplinary field that deals with how computers can be made to gain high-level understanding from digital images or videos. From the perspective of engineering, it seeks to automate tasks that the human visual system can do.

Object recognition – in computer vision, this is the task of finding a given object in an image or video sequence.


Natural language processing – computer activity in which computers are entailed to analyze, understand, alter, or generate natural language. This includes the automation of any or all linguistic forms, activities, or methods of communication, such as conversation, correspondence, reading, written composition, dictation, publishing, translation, lip reading, and so on.


Cryptography – the technology to secure communications in the presence of third parties.
Human-computer interaction - the study of how people interact with computers and to what extent computers are or are not developed for successful interaction with human beings.


Information technology – the acquisition, processing, storage and dissemination of vocal, pictorial, textual and numerical information by a microelectronics-based combination of computing and telecommunications.
Software engineering – the systematic approach to the development, operation, maintenance, and retirement of computer software.

Programming – the process of designing, writing, testing, debugging, and maintaining the source code of computer programs.
Software development – development of a software product, which entails computer programming (process of writing and maintaining the source code), but also encompasses a planned and structured process from the conception of the desired software to its final manifestation.
C++ – one of the most popular programming languages with application domains including systems software, application software, device drivers, embedded software, high-performance server and client applications, and entertainment software such as video games.
Perl – high-level, general-purpose, interpreted, dynamic programming language. Used for text processing, CGI scripting, graphics programming, system administration, network programming, finance, bioinformatics, and more.


Software – one or more computer programs and data held in the storage of the computer for one or more purposes. In other words, software is a set of programs, procedures, algorithms and its documentation concerned with the operation of a data processing system.

Application software - is program or a group of programs designed for end users.

Databases – is a collection of information that is organized so that it can easily be accessed, managed and updated.

MySQL ("My Structured Query Language") – world's second most widely used relational database management system (RDBMS) and most widely used open-source RDBMS.


Search engines – information retrieval systems designed to help find information stored on a computer system.


Free software – software that can be used, studied, and modified without restriction.
Operating systems

iOS – mobile operating system developed and distributed by Apple Inc. Originally released in 2007 for the iPhone and iPod Touch, it has since been extended to support other Apple devices such as the iPad and Apple TV.




Internet – the global system of interconnected computer networks that use the standard Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP).
Computer industry

Apple Inc. – manufacturer and retailer of computers, hand-held computing devices, and related products and services.
Google – Google Inc. and its Internet services including Google Search.


Computer security – Computer security, also known as cybersecurity or IT security, is the protection of information systems from theft or damage to the hardware, the software, and to the information on them, as well as from disruption or misdirection of the services they provide.


Construction – building or assembly of any physical structure.
Design – the art and science of creating the abstract form and function for an object or environment.

Architecture – the art and science of designing buildings.


Electronics – the branch of physics and technology concerned with the design of circuits using transistors and microchips, and with the behavior and movement of electrons in a semiconductor, conductor, vacuum, or gas.
Industry – production of an economic good or service.

Automation – use of machinery to replace human labor.
Industrial machinery –
Machines – devices that perform or assist in performing useful work.
Manufacturing – use of machines, tools and labor to produce goods for use or sale. The term may refer to a range of human activity, from handicraft to high tech, but is most commonly applied to industrial production, in which raw materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale.
Robotics – deals with the design, construction, operation, structural disposition, manufacture and application of robots.

Object recognition




Energy –

Energy development – ongoing effort to provide abundant, efficient, and accessible energy resources through knowledge, skills, and construction.
Energy storage – the storage of a form of energy that can then be used later.
Nuclear technology – the technology and application of the spontaneous and induced reactions of atomic nuclei.

Nuclear power – use of sustained nuclear fission to generate heat and electricity.


Wind energy –
Solar energy –


Engineering – the application of science, mathematics, and technology to produce useful goods and systems.

Chemical engineering – the technology and application of chemical processes to produce useful materials.
Computer engineering –
Control engineering –
Electrical engineering – the technology and application of electromagnetism, including electricity, electronics, telecommunications, computers, electric power, magnetics, and optics.
Mechanical engineering - applies the principles of engineering, physics, and materials science for the design, analysis, manufacturing, and maintenance of mechanical systems.
Software engineering – the technology and application of a systematic approach to the development, operation, maintenance, and retirement of computer software.


Firefighting – act of extinguishing fires. A firefighter fights fires to prevent destruction of life, property and the environment. Firefighting is a professional technical skill.
Forensic science – application of a broad spectrum of sciences to answer questions of interest to a legal system. This may be in relation to a crime or a civil action.
Futures studies – includes identification and forecasting of possible futures and future events, and analysis of their ramifications
Health

Biotechnology – applied biology that involves the use of living organisms and bioprocesses in engineering, technology, medicine and other fields requiring bioproducts.
Ergonomics – the study of designing equipment and devices that fit the human body, its movements, and its cognitive abilities.
Medicine – applied science of diagnosing and treating illness and disease.


Hydrology – The study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on Earth and other planets, including the hydrologic cycle, water resources and environmental watershed sustainability.
Information science –

Cartography – the study and practice of making maps. Combining science, aesthetics, and technique, cartography builds on the premise that reality can be modeled in ways that communicate spatial information effectively.
Library science – technology related to libraries and the information fields.


Military science – the study of the technique, psychology, practice and other phenomena which constitute war and armed conflict.
Mining – extraction of mineral resources from the earth.
Nanotechnology – The study of manipulating matter on an atomic and molecular scale. Generally, nanotechnology deals with structures sized between 1 to 100 nanometre in at least one dimension, and involves developing materials or devices possessing at least one dimension within that size.
Prehistoric technology – technologies that emerged before recorded history (i.e., before the development of writing).
Sustainability – capacity to endure. In ecology, the word describes how biological systems remain diverse and productive over time. Long-lived and healthy wetlands and forests are examples of sustainable biological systems. For humans, sustainability is the potential for long-term maintenance of well being, which has environmental, economic, and social dimensions.
Transport – the transfer of people or things from one place to another.

Transport, by type:

Transport, by mode:

Rail transport – means of conveyance of passengers and goods by way of wheeled vehicles running on rail tracks consisting of steel rails installed on sleepers/ties and ballast.


Transport, by power source:

Animal-powered transport –




Vehicles – mechanical devices for transporting people or things.

Vehicles, by type:

Land vehicles

Automobiles – human-guided powered land-vehicles.
Bicycles – human-powered land-vehicles with two or more wheels.
Motorcycles – single-track, engine-powered, motor vehicles. They are also called motorbikes, bikes, or cycles.




Vehicle components

Tires – ring-shaped coverings that fit around wheel rims














edit  watch  
 Lists   (see for all subject areas)


Technologies: Emerging Technology
Architecture and Construction



This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.



Buildings and structures: Tallest (London) • Irish buildings • Historic landmarks

Lighthouses and lightvessels: Belgium • Canada • France • Germany • Sweden • United States
Windmills: UK
Watermills: UK
Energy infrastructure: Largest • Coal • Fuel oil • Natural gas • Nuclear • Hydroelectric • Geothermal • Photovoltaic • Solar thermal • Tidal • Wind (Onshore • Offshore)
Water infrastructure: Largest • Reservoirs and dams • Tallest • Canals



Computing: AMD microprocessors • Intel microprocessors • Intel chipsets • Software bugs • Open source software packages • GNU packages • Operating systems • Unixes • Unix programs • Machines running CP/M • IBM products • UNIVAC products • Microcomputers • Graphics file formats • Test automation • Screen readers

Internet and World Wide Web: TCP and UDP port numbers • Internet top-level domains • Newsgroups • HTTP status codes • XML and HTML characters • Digital library projects • Colors • HTML editors • Wikis

Web technologies: Java APIs • .NET APIs • Web 2.0 • Ajax




Computer science: Algorithms • Data structures • Publications • Open problems


Programming languages: Alphabetical list • Categorical list • Chronological list • Generational list


Character sets and encodings: ASCII • EBCDIC • ISO 646 • ISO 8859-1 • ISO 8859-2 • ISO 8859-3 • ISO 8859-8 • ISO 8859-11 • ISO 8859-15 • Unicode • UTF-7 • UTF-8 • UTF-16 • UTF-32 • Windows-1252

Electronics
Engineering: Branches
Fire:

Firelighting

Military

Military strategies: Thirty-Six Strategies • Military tactics


Air forces of the world

Military air bases: Royal Air Force • Royal Canadian Air Force • US Air Force • US Army • US Coast Guard • US Marine Corps • US Navy
Air force commands: Royal Air Force • USAAF NAF Component Commands
Aircraft groups: Royal Air Force
Aircraft squadrons: British Army Air Corps • British Fleet Air Arm • Royal Air Force • US Air Force • US Army • US Marine Corps • US Navy
Aircraft wings: Royal Navy • US Navy




Armies of the world

Armies (by number) • Military corps (by number • by name) • Military divisions (by number • by name)






United Kingdom: Regiments of Foot • Regiments (1881) • Regiments (1903) • Regiments (1922) • Regiments (1962) • Regiments (1994) • British Forces in the American Revolutionary War






United States of America: Armies • Corps • Divisions • Defense contractors • Military bases




Navies of the world: Fleets


Military groups in WWI and WWII

Australia: Divisions in WWI • WWII
Britain: Groups in WWII • Armies in WWI • WWII • Corps in WWI • Divisions in WWI • WWII
Canada: Divisions in WWII
Germany: Prisoner of War Camps in WWII
India: Corps in WWII • Divisions in WWII
Poland: Divisions in WWII
United States of America: Groups in WWII




Terrorists of the world: Terrorist groups • Terrorist incidents


Military bases


Military events: Battles • Guerrilla movements • Invasions • Military missions, operations, and projects • Terrorist incidents • Wars


Weapons and miscellaneous topics

Military technology and equipment: Weapons • Aircraft weapons • World War II weapons • Missiles • Armoured fighting vehicles • NATO reporting names • Swords

Artillery: By country • WWII • Largest cannons by caliber



This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it.



Military aircraft: Luftwaffe • Soviet Union and CIS • United States • British Army Air Corps • Royal Air Force • Fleet Air Arm • Israeli • Australian Air Force • Australian Navy • Canadian Air Force • Canadian Navy • New Zealand Air Force and Navy • South African • Irish • French Air Force • NATO reporting names for misc aircraft • NATO reporting names for transport aircraft • US X-planes






Naval technology



By era/war: World War II
By type: Aircraft Carriers • Battleships • Cruisers • Destroyers • LSTs
By operator: Australia • Canada • Germany • India • Japan • Netherlands • United Kingdom • Royal Fleet Auxiliary (UK) • United States • Military Sealift Command (USA) • Soviet Union





Space exploration: Unmanned space missions • Human spaceflights • (by program) • Space disasters • Astronauts • Timeline of astronauts by nationality • List of NRO Launches
Transportation: Transport museums

Aviation: Aircraft • Manufacturers • Engines • Engine manufacturers • Weapons • By date and use




Aviation accidents • By airline • By location • By year






Airports • FR • BE • GR • JP • PL • UK • AU




Land transport

Automobiles: Manufacturers • Trucks
List of convoy codes
Cycles: Bicycle parts
Rail transport

Heritage railways
Light-rail transit • Melbourne tram routes • Metros • London Underground stations • closed London Underground stations • Melbourne railway stations • closed Melbourne railway stations • List of famous trains • List of railway stations - UK • closed New York City Subway stations


Road systems

Roads and highways: US Interstates • UK motorways • Highways in Australia • List of U.S. Routes • US state highways• Roads and Transport Authority serving Dubai
Bridges: UK • USA • Largest
Tunnels: NL • NZ • UK






Nautical / Shipping technology: Ships • Fictional ships • Sailboats • Marinas


Space transport: Spacecraft • List of unmanned spacecraft by program • List of Solar System probes • List of landings on extraterrestrial bodies








edit  watch  
 Portals   (see for all subject areas)


Technology


Engineering • Agriculture and Agronomy  • Astronomy • Biotechnology • Bridges • Electronics (Telecommunication) • Mass surveillance • Energy (Renewable energy) • Forestry • Hazardous Materials • Infrastructure • Laser • Mining • Nanotechnology • Nuclear technology • Robotics 

Computing and Information technology

Computer networking (Internet, IRC) • Computer programming (Python programming, Java) • Computer science (Artificial intelligence, Computer graphics) • Computer security (Cryptography) • Software (Free software, Linux) • Amiga  • Smartphone • Apple  • Google (Android) • Microsoft• Alphabet

Transport

Aviation • Bicycles/Cycling • Buses • Cars (Australian, Japanese) • Trucks • London Transport • Nautical (Lighthouses, UK Waterways) • Roads (Australian Roads, Canada Roads, U.S. Roads, California Roads, Maryland Roads, Michigan Highways, New York Roads, Washington Roads) • Spaceflight • Trains (North American railways, Railways in India, Sri Lanka Railways, UK Railways, Trams, UK Trams)








edit  watch  
 Glossaries   (see for all subject areas)


Technology and applied sciences

Telephony • Broadcasting • Engineering • Aerospace engineering • Fuel cell terms • Air pollution dispersion terminology • Heating, ventilation, AC (HVAC) • Firefighting (Firefighting equipment, Wildland fires) • Firelighting • Fisheries • Metalworking terminology • Woodworking (Joinery) • Mill machinery • Textile manufacturing

Computing and Information technology

Artificial intelligence • Computer • Computing and IT • Computing and IT abbreviations • Algorithms and data structures • Alternative terms for free software • Object-oriented programming • Unified Modeling Language • Machine vision • Internet • Internet slang • Blogging

Transport

Automotive design • Aviation, aerospace, and aeronautics • Nautical • Rail (Passenger rail, UK railway terms, U.S. railway terms, NZ railway terms) • Road • U.S. Trucking industry








edit  watch  
 Categories   (see for all subject areas)




Main categories: Technology and Applied sciences



Agriculture
Agronomy
Architecture
Automation
Biotechnology
Cartography
Chemical engineering
Communication

Media studies
Telecommunications


Construction
Control theory
Design
Digital divide
Earthquake engineering
Energy
Ergonomics
Firefighting
Fire prevention
Forensics
Forestry
Industry
Information science
Internet
Management
Manufacturing
Marketing
Medicine

Unsolved problems in neuroscience


Metalworking
Microtechnology
Military science
Mining
Nanotechnology
Nuclear technology
Optics
Plumbing
Robotics
Sound technology
Technology forecasting
Tools




Computing
Artificial intelligence
Classes of computers
Companies
Computer architecture
Computer model
Computer engineering
Computer science
Computer security
Computing and society
Data
Embedded systems
Free software
Human–computer interaction
Information systems
Information technology
Internet
Mobile Web
Languages
Multimedia
Networks
Industrial Networks
Operating systems
Platforms
Product lifecycle management
Programming
Real-time computing
Software
Software engineering
Unsolved problems in computer science




Electronics
Avionics
Integrated circuit (RF and MMIC) design
Circuits
Companies
Connectors
Consumer electronics
Digital electronics
Digital media
Electrical components
Electronic design
Electronics manufacturing
Embedded systems
Integrated circuits
Microwave technology
Molecular electronics
Water technology
Optoelectronics
Quantum electronics
Radio-frequency identification RFID
Radio electronics
Semiconductors
Signal cables
Surveillance
Telecommunications
Terminology




Engineering
Aerospace engineering
Bioengineering
Chemical engineering
Civil engineering
Electrical engineering
Environmental engineering
Materials science
Mechanical engineering
Nuclear technology
Software engineering
Structural engineering
Systems engineering




Transport
By country
Automobiles
Aviation
Cycling
Public transport
Rail transport
Road transport
Shipping
Spaceflight
Vehicles
Water transport




See also: Technology timelines









edit  watch  
 Indexes   (see for all subject areas)



Main indexes: Index of science articles and Index of technology articles.
Agriculture

Agricultural science
Agronomy
Fishing
Food

Organic food


Forestry


Architecture
Artificial intelligence
Automation

Home automation


Big Science
Biotechnology

Index of biomedical engineering articles


Cartography
Chemical engineering
Communication

Telecommunication

Internet
Telephone


Video


Computing

Computer science
Information technology
Internet
Programming

Android OS


Software engineering


Construction

Structural engineering


Dentistry
Design
Education
Electronics
Energy

Energy development
Energy storage
Steam energy
Renewable energy

Index of solar energy articles




Engineering

Structural engineering


Ergonomics
Family and consumer science
Firefighting
Forensics
Free software
Health
Health sciences
Industry
Industrial machinery
Internet
Library science (aka "Library and information science")
Machines
Management

Theory of Constraints


Manufacturing
Marketing
Mass production
Medicine
Military

Military food
Military technology and equipment


Mining
Nanotechology
Nuclear technology
Nutrition
Optical technology
Oral health
Radio
Robotics
Sound-related
Space exploration
Tools
Transport

Aerospace

Aviation


Vehicles

Automobile




Weapons







edit  watch  
 Wikipedia's contents pages



Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indicies



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books












Purge cache to show recent changes



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents/Technology_and_applied_sciences&oldid=602894592"					
Categories: TechnologyApplied sciencesContent portalsTechnology portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portalsArticles using small message boxes 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 5 April 2014, at 18:06.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.216","walltime":"0.319","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1364,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":228955,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17497,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  164.300      1 -total"," 68.06%  111.815      1 Portal:Contents/Topics_layout"," 31.89%   52.396      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 19.79%   32.514      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 16.70%   27.434      2 Template:Center"," 14.39%   23.645      1 Portal:Contents/Lists/Technology_and_applied_sciences"," 14.34%   23.556     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 13.04%   21.430      2 Template:Expand_section"," 11.11%   18.255      1 Template:Ambox","  8.94%   14.694      3 Template:Small"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.052","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1639795,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1277","timestamp":"20170210013352","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":71,"wgHostname":"mw1266"});});
