 







Portal:Contents

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Contents Overview Outlines Lists Portals Glossaries Categories Indices


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology




Explore Wikipedia's Contents





Shortcuts:

WP:START
WP:EXPLORE





Contents


1 Curated article collections

1.1 Overview articles
1.2 Outline pages
1.3 Third-party classification systems
1.4 Vital articles


2 Reference collections

2.1 List pages
2.2 Timelines
2.3 Glossaries
2.4 Bibliographies
2.5 Category:Discographies


3 Special format collections

3.1 Portals
3.2 Wikipedia books
3.3 Spoken articles


4 Collections of articles

4.1 Category system
4.2 Alphabetical lists of articles


5 Collections of articles by quality or popularity

5.1 Featured content
5.2 Most popular articles





There are two ways to look things up in Wikipedia: by searching or by browsing.

If you know the name of an article for which you are looking, simply type it into Wikipedia's search box.


If you would like to look around the encyclopedia to see what is on it, use Wikipedia's Contents pages. Lists and indices are examples of contents for a published work, and Wikipedia has many of each, including a complete alphabetical index and indices by category.
Links to all of Wikipedia's main contents pages are presented below, and they in turn link to the more specific pages.

Curated article collections
Overview articles
Overview articles summarize in prose a broad topic like biology, and also have illustrations and links to subtopics like cell biology, biographies like Carl Linnaeus, and other related articles like Human Genome Project.

Portal:Contents/Overviews lists overview articles from covered areas of knowledge in a single page.

Outline pages
Outline pages have trees of article links in an outline format. They show how important subtopics relate to each other, and can be useful as a more condensed, non-prose alternative to overview articles.

Portal:Contents/Outlines is a comprehensive list of "Outline of __" pages, organized by subject
Outline of academic disciplines covers subjects studied in college or university, and links directly to prose overview articles

Third-party classification systems
Various third-party classification systems have been mapped to Wikipedia articles, which can be accessed from these pages:

List of Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Wikipedia:Outline of Roget's Thesaurus

Vital articles
Main page: Wikipedia:Vital articles
Vital articles are lists of subjects for which Wikipedia should have corresponding high-quality articles. They serve as centralized watchlists to track the status of Wikipedia's most important articles.

Vital articles level 1 – 10 most important articles
Vital articles level 2 – 100 most important articles
Vital articles level 3 – 1,000 most important articles
Vital articles level 4 – 10,000 most important articles

Reference collections
Wikipedia has several types of pages which provide content in a non-prose form, for reference purposes.
List pages
List pages enumerate items of a particular type, such as the List of sovereign states or List of South Africans. Wikipedia has "lists of lists" when there are too many items to fit on a single page, when the items can sorted in different ways, or as a way of navigating lists on a topic (for example Lists of countries and territories or Lists of people). There are several ways to find lists:

Portal:Contents/Lists – A limited single-page collection of lists and lists of lists
List of lists of lists – A broad single-page collection of lists of lists
Category:Lists – Browse lists comprehensively via the multi-page Wikipedia category system

Timelines
Timelines list events chronologically, sometimes including links to articles with more detail. There are several ways to find timelines:

List of timelines has a long single-page collection
Category:Timelines has a comprehensive multi-page collection via the Wikipedia category system

Of particular interest may be:

List of centuries
List of decades
List of historical anniversaries—e.g. events on January 1 of any year
2017—major events this year
Portal:Current events—featured current events and related project activities
Deaths in 2017—lists notable people who died this year
Category:Graphical timelines—graphical timelines in the category and subcategories, arranged alphabetically

Glossaries
Glossaries are lists of terms with definitions. Wikipedia includes hundreds of alphabetical glossaries; they can be found two ways:

Portal:Contents/Glossaries – A single-page list of glossaries
Category:Wikipedia glossaries – Browse glossaries comprehensively via the Wikipedia category system

Bibliographies
Bibliographies list sources on a given topic, for verification or further reading outside Wikipedia:

Category:Wikipedia bibliographies has a complete multi-page listing

Category:Discographies
Discographies catalog the sound recordings of individual artists or groups.

Category:Discographies has a complete multi-page listing

Special format collections
Portals
Portals include featured articles, images, news, categories, excerpts of key articles, links to related portals, and to-do lists for editors. There are two ways to find portals:

Portal:Contents/Portals – A single-page list of portals
Category:Portals – Browse portals comprehensively via the Wikipedia category system

Wikipedia books
Wikipedia books are collections of Wikipedia articles that can be viewed, downloaded, or printed into a book. They provide a roadmap for a course of study in a particular subject.

Category:Wikipedia books (community books)—an alphabetical list of the books
Category:Wikipedia books—a list of the books, categorized by topic

Spoken articles
Growing collections of Wikipedia articles are starting to become available as spoken word recordings as well.

Category:Spoken articles—an organized list of all spoken articles
Wikipedia:Spoken articles—some general information about the spoken article technology

Collections of articles
Category system
Wikipedia's collection of category pages is a classified index system. It is automatically generated from category tags at the bottoms of articles and most other pages. Nearly all of the articles available so far on the website can be found through these subject indexes.
If you are simply looking to browse articles by topic, there are three top-level pages to choose from:

Category:Main topic classifications—probably what you are looking for: Arts, History, Technology, etc.
Category:Fundamental categories—organizes articles into "abstract" ontological categories in a way that every article can reasonably be expected to be classified within it
Portal:Contents/Categories—a hand-crafted list of first- and second-level topic categories

For biographies, see Category:People.
Category:Contents is technically at the top of the category hierarchy, but contains many categories useful to editors but not readers. Special:Categories lists every category alphabetically.
Alphabetical lists of articles
Wikipedia's alphabetical article indexes

Special:Allpages lists all of the current pages in Wikipedia.
Portal:Contents/A–Z index provides an easy way to skip to a particular part of the alphabet in the list of all articles.
Lists of alphabetical indexes

Category:Wikipedia indexes—alphabetical list of topic indexes
Portal:Contents/Indices—indexes sorted by topic area



Collections of articles by quality or popularity
Featured content
Featured content is the best Wikipedia has to offer, via vigorous peer review. Presented by type:

Featured articles · Featured lists · Featured pictures · Featured portals · Featured topics

Most popular articles

Wikipedia:Top 5000 pages (of the last week)
Wikitop—Top 30 most popular articles by categories, with user comments on traffic jumps





Content listings
Types


Overviews
Featured content
Outlines
Lists
Portals
Glossaries
Categories
Indices



Topics

Current events
Reference
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Places, people and times

Academic disciplines
Anniversaries

today


Countries and territories
People

deaths this year


Timelines

centuries
decades




Indices


A–Z index
Categories
Dewey Decimal classes
Library of Congress Classification
Roget's Thesaurus
Spoken articles
Wikipedia books






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Contents&oldid=762093233"					
Categories: Wikipedia directoriesContentsContent portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portalsWikipedia move-protected portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikiversity 



Languages


Afrikaansالعربيةঅসমীয়াবাংলাЧӑвашлаCebuanoEspañolفارسی한국어हिन्दीҚазақшаKurdîMagyarBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsРусскийShqipසිංහලСрпски / srpskiSuomiTagalogதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaతెలుగుไทยУкраїнськаXitsonga粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 26 January 2017, at 16:24.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.084","walltime":"0.124","ppvisitednodes":{"value":497,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":23751,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":12444,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":7,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%   97.080      1 -total"," 52.28%   50.751      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 28.13%   27.307      1 Portal:Contents/TOC_navbar"," 25.13%   24.395      2 Template:Center"," 21.39%   20.761     20 Template:Clickable_button_2"," 13.29%   12.905      1 Template:Small"," 12.86%   12.482      1 Template:Contents_pages_(header_bar)","  6.44%    6.254      1 Template:Main","  5.35%    5.198      1 Template:Shortcut","  3.20%    3.111      1 Template:Pp-move-indef"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.040","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1715898,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1238","timestamp":"20170206190332","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":48,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
