 







Wikipedia:About

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For an overview of everything about Wikipedia on Wikipedia, see Outline of Wikipedia
"Wikipedia:Wikipedia" redirects here. For other uses, see Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation).






About Wikipedia

Administration


Contributing

Welcome
Tips


Help menu

Index


Directories
FAQ
Asking questions

Help desk
Reference desk


Wikicode

Tools










This is a general introduction for visitors to Wikipedia. The project also has an encyclopedia article about itself, Wikipedia, and an introduction for aspiring contributors. For information on how to donate to the organization that runs Wikipedia, see Ways to Give.


Shortcuts:

WP:ABOUT
WP:WIKIPEDIA







English Wikipedia right now




Wikipedia is running MediaWiki
version 1.29.0-wmf.11 (0c623be).
It has 5,334,375 content articles,
and 41,424,881 pages in total.
There are 848,417 uploaded files.
There have been 874,445,125 edits.
There are 30,207,074 registered users,

including 1,274 administrators.


Of these are 137,321 active users
(have performed an action in the last 30 days).






Information as of 08:55, 13 February 2017 (UTC).
Update







v
t
e





Wikipedia (i/ˌwɪkᵻˈpiːdi.ə/ or i/ˌwɪkiˈpiːdi.ə/ WIK-i-PEE-dee-ə) is a multilingual, web-based, free-content encyclopedia project supported by the Wikimedia Foundation and based on a model of openly editable content. The name "Wikipedia" is a portmanteau of the words wiki (a technology for creating collaborative websites, from the Hawaiian word wiki, meaning "quick") and encyclopedia. Wikipedia's articles provide links designed to guide the user to related pages with additional information.
Wikipedia is written collaboratively by largely anonymous volunteers who write without pay. Anyone with Internet access can write and make changes to Wikipedia articles, except in limited cases where editing is restricted to prevent disruption or vandalism. Users can contribute anonymously, under a pseudonym, or, if they choose to, with their real identity.
The fundamental principles by which Wikipedia operates are the five pillars. The Wikipedia community has developed many policies and guidelines to improve the encyclopedia; however, it is not a formal requirement to be familiar with them before contributing.
Since its creation in 2001, Wikipedia has grown rapidly into one of the largest reference websites, attracting 374 million unique visitors monthly as of September 2015[update].[1] There are about 70,000 active contributors working on more than 41,000,000 articles in 294 languages. As of today, there are 5,334,375 articles in English. Every day, hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world collectively make tens of thousands of edits and create thousands of new articles to augment the knowledge held by the Wikipedia encyclopedia. (See the statistics page for more information.) People of all ages, cultures and backgrounds can add or edit article prose, references, images and other media here. What is contributed is more important than the expertise or qualifications of the contributor. What will remain depends upon whether the content is free of copyright restrictions and contentious material about living people, and whether it fits within Wikipedia's policies, including being verifiable against a published reliable source, thereby excluding editors' opinions and beliefs and unreviewed research. Contributions cannot damage Wikipedia because the software allows easy reversal of mistakes and many experienced editors are watching to help ensure that edits are cumulative improvements. Begin by simply clicking the Edit link at the top of any editable page!
Wikipedia is a live collaboration differing from paper-based reference sources in important ways. Unlike printed encyclopedias, Wikipedia is continually created and updated, with articles on historic events appearing within minutes, rather than months or years. Because everybody can help improve it, Wikipedia has become more comprehensive than any other encyclopedia. In addition to quantity, its contributors work on improving quality as well. Wikipedia is a work-in-progress, with articles in various stages of completion. As articles develop, they tend to become more comprehensive and balanced. Quality also improves over time as misinformation and other errors are removed or repaired. However, because anyone can click "edit" at any time and add stuff in, any article may contain undetected misinformation, errors, or vandalism. Awareness of this helps the reader to obtain valid information, avoid recently added misinformation (see Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia), and fix the article.
See also: Wikipedia:FAQ and Wikipedia:Citing Wikipedia



Contents


1 About Wikipedia

1.1 Wikipedia history
1.2 Wikipedia contributors
1.3 Trademarks and copyrights
1.4 Credits


2 Making the best use of Wikipedia

2.1 Exploring Wikipedia
2.2 Basic navigation in Wikipedia
2.3 Using Wikipedia as a research tool
2.4 Wikipedia vs paper encyclopedias
2.5 Strengths, weaknesses, and article quality in Wikipedia
2.6 Disclaimers


3 Contributing to Wikipedia

3.1 Editing Wikipedia pages
3.2 Wikipedia content criteria
3.3 Editorial administration, oversight, and management
3.4 Handling disputes and abuse
3.5 Editorial quality review


4 Technical attributes
5 Feedback and questions

5.1 Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
5.2 Static help
5.3 Giving feedback
5.4 Research help and similar questions
5.5 Community discussion
5.6 Contacting individual Wikipedia editors


6 Other languages
7 Sister projects
8 See also
9 References
10 Further reading
11 External links



About Wikipedia
For information on the administrative structure of Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Administration.
Wikipedia history
For more details on this topic, see History of Wikipedia.




The English edition of Wikipedia has grown to 5,334,375 articles, equivalent to over 2,000 print volumes of the Encyclopædia Britannica. Including all language editions, Wikipedia has over 38 million articles, equivalent to over 15,000 print volumes.


Wikipedia was founded as an offshoot of Nupedia, a now-abandoned project to produce a free encyclopedia, begun by the online media company Bomis. Nupedia had an elaborate system of peer review and required highly qualified contributors, but the writing of articles was slow. During 2000, Jimmy Wales (founder of Nupedia and co-founder of Bomis), and Larry Sanger, whom Wales had employed to work on the encyclopedia project, discussed ways of supplementing Nupedia with a more open, complementary project. Multiple sources suggested that a wiki might allow members of the public to contribute material, and Nupedia's first wiki went online on January 10, 2001.
There was considerable resistance on the part of Nupedia's editors and reviewers to the idea of associating Nupedia with a website in the wiki format, so the new project was given the name "Wikipedia" and launched on its own domain, wikipedia.com, on January 15 (now called "Wikipedia Day" by some users). The bandwidth and server (in San Diego) were donated by Wales. Other current and past Bomis employees who have worked on the project include Tim Shell, one of the cofounders of Bomis and its current CEO, and programmer Jason Richey.
In May 2001, a large number of non-English Wikipedias were launched—in Catalan, Chinese, Dutch, Esperanto, French, German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Swedish. These were soon joined by Arabic and Hungarian. In September,[2] Polish was added, and further commitment to the multilingual provision of Wikipedia was made. At the end of the year, Afrikaans, Norwegian, and Serbo-Croatian versions were announced.
The domain was eventually changed to the present wikipedia.org when the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation was launched, in 2003, as its new parent organization, with the ".org" top-level domain denoting its non-commercial nature. Today, there are Wikipedias in over 250 languages.
Wikipedia contributors
Main pages: Wikipedia:Who writes Wikipedia? and Wikipedia:Wikipedians
Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Editors


Play media


Wikipedia contributors


Anyone with Web access can edit Wikipedia, and this openness encourages inclusion of a tremendous amount of content. About 70,000 editors—from expert scholars to casual readers—regularly edit Wikipedia, and these experienced editors often help to create a consistent style throughout the encyclopedia, following our Manual of Style.
Several mechanisms are in place to help Wikipedia members carry out the important work of crafting a high-quality resource while maintaining civility. Editors are able to watch pages and technically skilled persons can write editing programs to keep track of or rectify bad edits. Where there are disagreements on how to display facts, editors often work together to compile an article that fairly represents current expert opinion on the subject.
Although the Wikimedia Foundation owns the site, it is largely uninvolved in writing and daily operations.
Trademarks and copyrights
Main pages: Wikipedia:Copyrights and wmf:Trademark policy
"Wikipedia" is a registered trademark of the not-for-profit Wikimedia Foundation, which has created a family of free-content projects that are built by user contributions.
Most of Wikipedia's text and many of its images are dual-licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-Sharealike 3.0 Unported License (CC-BY-SA) and the GNU Free Documentation License (GFDL) (unversioned, with no invariant sections, front-cover texts, or back-cover texts). Some text has been imported only under CC-BY-SA and CC-BY-SA-compatible license and cannot be reused under GFDL; such text is identified either on the page footer, in the page history or on the discussion page of the article that utilizes the text. Every image has a description page that indicates the license under which it is released or, if it is non-free, the rationale under which it is used.
Contributions remain the property of their creators, while the CC-BY-SA and GFDL licenses ensure the content is freely distributable and reproducible. (See content disclaimer for more information.)
Credits
Text on Wikipedia is a collaborative work, and the efforts of individual contributors to a page are recorded in that page's history, which is publicly viewable. Information on the authorship of images and other media, such as sound files, can be found by clicking on the image itself or the nearby information icon to display the file page, which includes the author and source, where appropriate, along with other information.
Making the best use of Wikipedia


Readers' FAQ and help








About Wikipedia

Administration


Authority control
Categories
Censorship
Citing
Copyright
Disambiguation
Images and multimedia
ISBN
Microformats
Mobile access
Navigation
Other languages
Page names
Portals
Protected pages
Searching
Student help







Readers' glossary
Readers' index
Researching with Wikipedia
Reader's guide to Wikipedia






Contributing to Wikipedia







v
t
e





Further information: Wikipedia:Reader's index to Wikipedia
See also: Reader's guide to Wikipedia and the guide to using Wikipedia in research
Exploring Wikipedia
Main page: Portal:Contents
Many visitors come to Wikipedia to acquire knowledge, while others come to share knowledge. At this very instant, dozens of articles are being improved, and new articles are also being created. Changes can be viewed at the Recent changes page and a random page at random articles. Over 4,500 articles have been designated by the Wikipedia community as featured articles, exemplifying the best articles in the encyclopedia. Another 22,000 articles are designated as good articles. Some information on Wikipedia is organized into lists; the best of these are designated as featured lists. Wikipedia also has portals, which organize content around topic areas; our best portals are selected as featured portals. Articles can be found using the search box on the top-right side of the screen.
Wikipedia is available in languages other than English. Wikipedia has more than two hundred and eighty languages, including a Simple English version, and related projects include a dictionary, quotations, books, manuals, and scientific reference sources, and a news service (see sister projects). All of these are maintained, updated, and managed by separate communities, and often include information and articles that can be hard to find through other common sources.
Basic navigation in Wikipedia
Main page: Help:Navigation
Wikipedia articles are all linked, or cross-referenced. When highlighted text like this is seen, it means there is a link to some relevant article or Wikipedia page with further in-depth information. Holding the mouse over the link will often show to where the link will lead. There are other links towards the ends of most articles, for other articles of interest, relevant external websites and pages, reference material, and organized categories of knowledge which can be searched and traversed in a loose hierarchy for more information. Some articles may also have links to dictionary definitions, audio-book readings, quotations, the same article in other languages, and further information available on our sister projects. Additional links can be easily made if a relevant link is missing—this is one simple way to contribute.
Using Wikipedia as a research tool
Main pages: Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia and Wikipedia:Citing Wikipedia
As wiki documents, articles are never considered complete and may be continually edited and improved. Over time, this generally results in an upward trend of quality and a growing consensus over a neutral representation of information.
Users should be aware that not all articles are of encyclopedic quality from the start: they may contain false or debatable information. Indeed, many articles start their lives as displaying a single viewpoint; and, after a long process of discussion, debate, and argument, they gradually take on a neutral point of view reached through consensus. Others may, for a while, become caught up in a heavily unbalanced viewpoint which can take some time—months or years perhaps—to achieve better balanced coverage of their subject. In part, this is because editors often contribute content in which they have a particular interest and do not attempt to make each article that they edit comprehensive. However, eventually, additional editors expand and contribute to articles and strive to achieve balance and comprehensive coverage. In addition, Wikipedia operates a number of internal resolution processes that can assist when editors disagree on content and approach. Usually, editors eventually reach a consensus on ways to improve the article.
The ideal Wikipedia article is well written, balanced, neutral, and encyclopedic, containing comprehensive, notable, verifiable knowledge. An increasing number of articles reach this standard over time, and many already have. Our best articles are called Featured Articles (and display a small star in the upper right corner of the article), and our second best tier of articles are designated Good Articles. However, this is a process and can take months or years to be achieved through the concerted effort of editors. Some articles contain statements which have not yet been fully cited. Others will later be augmented with new sections. Some information will be considered by later contributors to be insufficiently founded and, therefore, may be removed.
While the overall trend is toward improvement, it is important to use Wikipedia carefully if it is intended to be used as a research source, since individual articles will, by their nature, vary in quality and maturity. Guidelines and information pages are available to help users and researchers do this effectively, as is an article that summarizes third-party studies and assessments of the reliability of Wikipedia.
Wikipedia vs paper encyclopedias

Main page: Wikipedia is not paper (on Wikimedia Meta-Wiki).

Wikipedia has advantages over traditional paper encyclopedias. First, is that it is not limited in space: it can keep growing as fast as people add to it.
Second, there are no qualifications required to be able to author its articles. Therefore, it has a very large pool of contributors: the whole world. This, and the first advantage mentioned above, have enabled Wikipedia to become the most comprehensive encyclopedia on Earth.
Third, a paper encyclopedia remains static (stays the same) and falls out of date until the next edition. But Wikipedia is dynamic: you don't have to wait for the next edition to come out (there are no editions), as Wikipedia is published on-line as it is written on-line. Articles are made available as is, regardless of what stage of development they are in. You can update Wikipedia at any instant, and people do so continually around the clock, thereby helping each other to keep abreast of the most recent events everywhere and of the latest facts in every subject.
Fourth, Wikipedia has a very low "publishing" cost for adding or expanding entries, as it is on-line, with no need to buy paper or ink for distribution. This has allowed it to be made available for free, making it more accessible to everyone. This has enabled Wikipedia to be independently developed and published in many different languages at the same time, by people literate in each language. Of the 280+ different language Wikipedias, 132 of them have 10,000 or more articles.
Fifth, Wikipedia has a low environmental impact in some respects, since it never needs to be printed, although computers have their own environmental cost.
Sixth, Wikipedia is extra-linear (more than linear). Instead of in-line explanations, Wikipedia incorporates hypertext in the form of wikilinks. Throughout its content is a robust network of links, providing another dimension of knowledge accessibility. The encyclopedia also has correlates to tables of contents and indexes, with each entry in them hyperlinked to an article on the topic specified.
Seventh, each Wikipedia article provides an introduction summarizing the more extensive detail of its contents.
Eighth, being open to anyone to edit, articles on Wikipedia are subject to additions that are erroneous or written poorly. It is a community effort, with most people who are involved helping to improve the work, fixing problems they encounter along the way. See more about Wikipedia's strengths and weaknesses, below...
Strengths, weaknesses, and article quality in Wikipedia
Main pages: Wikipedia:Why Wikipedia is so great and Wikipedia:Why Wikipedia is not so great
See also: Reliability of Wikipedia and Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia
Wikipedia's greatest strengths, weaknesses, and differences all arise because it is open to anyone, it has a large contributor base, and its articles are written by consensus, according to editorial guidelines and policies.

Wikipedia is open to a large contributor base, drawing a large number of editors from diverse backgrounds. This allows Wikipedia to significantly reduce regional and cultural bias found in many other publications, and makes it very difficult for any group to censor and impose bias. A large, diverse editor base also provides access and breadth on subject matter that is otherwise inaccessible or little documented. A large number of editors contributing at any moment also means that Wikipedia can produce encyclopedic articles and resources covering newsworthy events within hours or days of their occurrence. It also means that like any publication, Wikipedia may reflect the cultural, age, socio-economic, and other biases of its contributors. There is no systematic process to make sure that "obviously important" topics are written about, so Wikipedia may contain unexpected oversights and omissions. While most articles may be altered by anyone, in practice editing will be performed by a certain demographic (younger rather than older, male rather than female, rich enough to afford a computer rather than poor, et cetera) and may, therefore, show some bias. Some topics may not be covered well, while others may be covered in great depth.
Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia means that it is more easily vandalized or susceptible to unchecked information, which requires removal. See Wikipedia:Administrator intervention against vandalism. While blatant vandalism is usually easily spotted and rapidly corrected, Wikipedia is more subject to subtle viewpoint promotion than a typical reference work. However, bias that would be unchallenged in a traditional reference work is likely to be ultimately challenged or considered on Wikipedia. While Wikipedia articles generally attain a good standard after editing, it is important to note that fledgling articles and those monitored less well may be susceptible to vandalism and insertion of false information. Wikipedia's radical openness also means that any given article may be, at any given moment, in a bad state, such as in the middle of a large edit, or a controversial rewrite. Many contributors do not yet comply fully with key policies, or may add information without citable sources. Wikipedia's open approach tremendously increases the chances that any particular factual error or misleading statement will be relatively promptly corrected. Numerous editors at any given time are monitoring recent changes and edits to articles on their watchlists.
Wikipedia is written by open and transparent consensus—an approach that has its pros and cons. Censorship or imposing "official" points of view is extremely difficult to achieve and usually fails after a time. Eventually for most articles, all notable views become fairly described and a neutral point of view reached. In reality, the process of reaching consensus may be long and drawn-out, with articles fluid or changeable for a long time while they find their "neutral approach" that all sides can agree on. Reaching neutrality is occasionally made harder by extreme-viewpoint contributors. Wikipedia operates a full editorial dispute resolution process, one that allows time for discussion and resolution in depth, but one that also permits disagreements to last for months before poor-quality or biased edits are removed. A common conclusion is that Wikipedia is a valuable resource and provides a good reference point on its subjects.
That said, articles and subject areas sometimes suffer from significant omissions, and while misinformation and vandalism are usually corrected quickly, this does not always happen. (See for example this incident in which a person inserted a fake biography linking a prominent journalist to the Kennedy assassinations and Soviet Russia as a joke on a co-worker which went undetected for four months, saying afterwards he "didn’t know Wikipedia was used as a serious reference tool".)
Wikipedia is written largely by amateurs. Those with expert credentials are given no additional weight. Wikipedia is also not subject to any peer review for scientific, medical or engineering articles. One advantage to having amateurs write in Wikipedia is that they have more free time on their hands so that they can make rapid changes in response to current events. The wider the general public interest in a topic, the more likely it is to attract contributions from non-specialists.

The MediaWiki software that runs Wikipedia retains a history of all edits and changes, thus information added to Wikipedia never "vanishes" irreversibly. Discussion pages are an important resource on contentious topics. Therefore, serious researchers can often find a wide range of vigorously or thoughtfully advocated viewpoints not present in the consensus article. As with any source, information should be checked. A 2005 editorial by a BBC technology writer comments that these debates are probably symptomatic of cultural changes that are happening across all sources of information (including search engines and the media), and may lead to "a better sense of how to evaluate information sources".[3]
Disclaimers


Disclaimers




General
Content
Legal
Medical
Risk




Related




Academic use
Non-Wikipedia







v
t
e





Main page: Wikipedia:General disclaimer
Wikipedia disclaimers apply to all pages on Wikipedia. However, the consensus in Wikipedia is to put all disclaimers only as links and at the end of each article. Proposals to have a warning box at the beginning have been rejected. Some do not like the way it looks or that it calls attention to possible errors in Wikipedia.
Wikipedia, in common with many websites, has a disclaimer that, at times, has led to commentators citing these in order to support a view that Wikipedia is unreliable. A selection of similar disclaimers from places which are often regarded as reliable (including sources such as Encyclopædia Britannica, Associated Press, and the Oxford English Dictionary) can be read and compared at Wikipedia:Non-Wikipedia disclaimers.
Contributing to Wikipedia



Contributing to Wikipedia





Protocols





Editing policy
(Content policies)
Etiquette guide
(Dispute resolution)
Simple rule set
Simple style manual





Introductions





About Wikipedia
(Administration)
How to contribute
(Tutorial)
Newcomers' primer
Plain & simple
Wikipedia Adventure
VisualEditor





How-to pages





Creating an account
How to edit
Starting an article
(Article wizard)
Talk pages
(BOLD, revert, discuss)
Referencing
Renaming
Deletion
Media
Lists
Tables
Templates
Copying text
Style tips
Wiki markup





Writing advice





Article development
Basic copyediting
Layouts
Avoiding mistakes
Writing better
Perfect article
Advanced editing
Writing about women





Community





Portal
Dashboard
Essays
Maintenance
WikiProjects
Editor's index





Directories





FAQs
Help index
Tools





Interactive help





Teahouse
Help desk








v
t
e





Main page: Wikipedia:Contributing to Wikipedia
See also: Wikipedia:Your first article and Guide to fixing vandalism




A downloadable "Editing Wikipedia guide" in PDF form written by the staff at the Wikimedia Foundation


Anyone can contribute to Wikipedia by clicking on the Edit tab in an article. Before beginning to contribute, however, read some handy helping tools such as the tutorial and the policies and guidelines, as well as our welcome page. Creating an account offers many benefits. It is important to realize that in contributing to Wikipedia, users are expected to be civil and neutral, respecting all points of view, and only add verifiable and factual information rather than personal views and opinions. "The five pillars of Wikipedia" cover this approach and are recommended reading before editing. (Vandals are reported via the Administrator Notice Board and may be temporarily blocked from editing Wikipedia.)
Most articles start as stubs, but after many contributions, they can become featured articles. Once the contributor has decided a topic of interest, they may want to request that the article be written (or they could research the issue and write it themselves). Wikipedia has on-going projects, focused on specific topic areas or tasks, which help coordinate editing.
The ease of editing Wikipedia results in many people editing. That makes the updating of the encyclopedia very quick, almost as fast as news websites.
Editing Wikipedia pages
Main pages: Help:Editing and Help:Wiki markup


Play media


Editing tutorial for Wikipedia using classic wiki markup. (3:07 min)


Wikipedia uses a simple yet powerful page layout to allow editors to concentrate on adding material rather than page design. Page aspects facilitated include:

sections and subsections—which follow a page's lead section/introduction and (if specific conditions are met) a table of contents,
references,
images,
tables,
indentations
lists,
links,
ISBNs,
maths,
formatting elements and most world alphabets and common symbols, Most of which have simple formats that are deliberately very easy and intuitive.

Normally editing is chosen by clicking the Edit tab at the top of a Wikipedia page (or on a section-edit link). This will take you to a new page with a text box containing the editable text of the page you were viewing. In this box, you can type in the text that you want to add, using wiki markup to format the text and add other elements like images and tables. You should then press the Show preview button to review your contributions for any errors. When you have finished editing, you should write a short edit summary in the small field below the edit-box describing your changes before you press the Save page button. This will help others to understand the intention of your edit. To avoid accidentally leaving edit summaries blank, you can select "Prompt me when entering a blank edit summary" on the Editing tab of your personal preferences.
Page editing is accessed through tabs that are found along the top edge of the page. These are:

Article. Shows the main Wikipedia article.
Talk. Shows a user discussion about the article's topic and possible revisions, controversies, etc.
Edit. This tab allows users to edit the article. Depending on the page’s susceptibility to vandalism, according to its visibility or the degree of controversy surrounding the topic, this tab may not be shown for all users. (For example, any user who is not an administrator will not be able to edit the Main Page.)
View history. This tab allows readers to view the editors of the article and the changes that have been made.
Star. ("Watch") If you are logged into your account, clicking on the star icon will cause any changes made to the article to be displayed on the watchlist. (Note: when this icon is clicked, it changes to a filled-in star.)

Wikipedia has robust version and reversion controls. This means that poor-quality edits or vandalism can quickly and easily be reversed or brought up to an appropriate standard by any other editor, so inexperienced editors cannot accidentally do permanent harm if they make a mistake in their editing. As there are many more editors intent on improving articles than not, error-ridden articles are usually corrected promptly.
Wikipedia content criteria
Main pages: Wikipedia:Wikipedia in brief and Wikipedia:Core content policies


Core content policies




Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability




Other content policies




Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use policy
What Wikipedia is not







v
t
e





Wikipedia content is intended to be factual, notable, verifiable with cited external sources, and neutrally presented.
The appropriate policies and guidelines for these are found at:

Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not, which summarizes what belongs in Wikipedia and what does not;
Wikipedia:Neutral point of view, which describes Wikipedia's mandatory core approach to neutral, unbiased article-writing;
Wikipedia:No original research, which prohibits the use of Wikipedia to publish personal views and original research of editors and defines Wikipedia's role as an encyclopedia of existing recognized knowledge;
Wikipedia:Verifiability, which explains that it must be possible for readers to verify all content against credible external sources (following the guidance in the Wikipedia:Risk disclaimer that is linked-to at the end of every article);
Wikipedia:Reliable sources, which explains what factors determine whether a source is acceptable;
Wikipedia:Citing sources, which describes the manner of citing sources so that readers can verify content for themselves;
And Wikipedia:Manual of Style, which offers a style guide—in general editors tend to acquire knowledge of appropriate writing styles and detailed formatting over time.

These are often abbreviated to WP:NOT, WP:NPOV, WP:NOR, WP:V, WP:RS, WP:CITE, and WP:MOS respectively.
Editorial administration, oversight, and management
Main pages: Wikipedia:Administration and Wikipedia:Editorial oversight and control


Play media


Video guided tour #2: Why does Wikipedia work even though anyone can edit it?


The Wikipedia community is largely self-organising, so that anyone may build a reputation as a competent editor and become involved in any role s/he may choose, subject to peer approval. Individuals often will choose to become involved in specialised tasks, such as reviewing articles at others' request, watching current edits for vandalism, watching newly created articles for quality control purposes, or similar roles. Editors who believe they can serve the community better by taking on additional administrative responsibility may ask their peers for agreement to undertake such responsibilities. This structure enforces meritocracy and communal standards of editorship and conduct. At present a minimum approval of 75–80% from the community is required to take on these additional tools and responsibilities. This standard tends to ensure a high level of experience, trust, and familiarity across a broad front of aspects within Wikipedia.
A variety of software-assisted systems and automated programs help editors and administrators to watch for problematic edits and editors. Theoretically all editors and users are treated equally with no "power structure". There is, however, a hierarchy of permissions and positions, some of which are listed hereafter:

Anyone can edit most of the articles here. Some articles are protected because of vandalism or edit-warring, and can only be edited by certain editors.
Anyone with an account that has been registered for four days or longer and has made at least ten edits becomes autoconfirmed, and gains the technical ability to do three things that non-autoconfirmed editors cannot:

Move articles.
Edit semi-protected articles.
Vote in certain elections (minimum edit count to receive suffrage varies depending on the election).


Many editors with accounts obtain access to certain tools that make editing easier and faster. Few editors learn about most of those tools, but one common privilege granted to editors in good standing is "rollback", which is the ability to undo edits more easily.
Administrators ("admins" or "sysops") have been approved by the community, and have access to some significant administrative tools. They can delete articles, block accounts or IP addresses, and edit fully protected articles.
Bureaucrats are chosen in a process similar to that for selecting administrators. There are not very many bureaucrats. They have the technical ability to add or remove admin rights and approve or revoke "bot" privileges.
The Arbitration Committee is analogous to Wikipedia's supreme court. They deal with disputes that remain unresolved after other attempts at dispute resolution have failed. Members of this Committee are elected by the community and tend to be selected from among the pool of experienced admins.
Stewards hold the top echelon of community permissions. Stewards can do a few technical things, and one almost never hears much about them since they normally only act when a local admin or bureaucrat is not available, and hence almost never on the English Wikipedia. There are very few stewards.
Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikipedia, has several special roles and privileges. In most instances, however, he does not expect to be treated differently than any other editor or administrator.

Handling disputes and abuse
Main pages: Wikipedia:Vandalism, Wikipedia:Dispute resolution, Wikipedia:Consensus, Wikipedia:Sock puppetry, and Wikipedia:Conflict of interest
Wikipedia has a rich set of methods to handle most abuses that commonly arise. These methods are well-tested and should be relied upon.

Intentional vandalism can be reported and corrected by anyone.
Unresolved disputes between editors, whether based upon behavior, editorial approach, or validity of content, can be addressed through the talk page of an article, through requesting comments from other editors or through Wikipedia's comprehensive dispute resolution process.
Abuse of user accounts, such as the creation of "Internet sock puppets" or solicitation of friends and other parties to enforce a non-neutral viewpoint or inappropriate consensus within a discussion, or to disrupt other Wikipedia processes in an annoying manner, are addressed through the sock puppet policy.

In addition, new users may initially find that their votes are given less weight by editors in some informal polls in order to prevent abuse of single-purpose accounts.
Editorial quality review
As well as systems to catch and control substandard and vandalistic edits, Wikipedia also has a full style and content manual and a variety of positive systems for continual article review and improvement. Examples of the processes include peer review, good article assessment, and the featured article process, a rigorous review of articles that are intended to meet the highest standards and showcase Wikipedia's capability to produce high-quality work.
In addition, specific types of article or fields often have their own specialized and comprehensive projects, assessment processes (such as biographical article assessment), and expert reviewers within specific subjects. Nominated articles are also frequently the subject of specific focus on the neutral point of view noticeboard or in WikiProject Cleanup.
Technical attributes
Wikipedia uses MediaWiki software, the open-source program used not only on Wikimedia projects but also on many other third-party websites. The hardware supporting the Wikimedia projects is based on several hundred servers in various hosting centers around the world. Full descriptions of these servers and their roles are available on this Meta-Wiki page. For technical information about Wikipedia, check Technical FAQ. Wikipedia publishes various types of metadata; and, across its pages, are many thousands of microformats.
Feedback and questions
Wikipedia is run as a communal effort. It is a community project whose result is an encyclopedia. Feedback about content should, in the first instance, be raised on the discussion pages of those articles. Be bold and edit the pages to add information or correct mistakes.
Frequently asked questions (FAQ)
Main page: Wikipedia:FAQ

FAQ index
Category:Wikipedia FAQ

Static help
The Help:Contents may be accessed by clicking help displayed under the ► Interaction tab at the top left of all pages.

Help:Menu—is a menu-style page that will direct you to the right place to find information.
Help:Directory—is a descriptive listing of all Wikipedia's informative, instructional and consultation pages.

Giving feedback
There is an established escalation-and-dispute process within Wikipedia, as well as pages designed for questions, feedback, suggestions, and comments. For a full listing of the services and assistance that can be requested on Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Request directory.

Talk pages—the associated discussion page for discussion of an article or policy's contents (usually the first place to go)
Wikipedia:Vandalism—a facility for reporting vandalism (but fix vandalism as well as report it)
Dispute resolution—the procedure for handling disputes that remain unresolved within an article's talk space
Village pump—the Wikipedia discussion area, part of the Community portal
Wikipedia:Contact us

See also:

Bug tracker—a facility for reporting problems with the Wikipedia website or the MediaWiki software that runs it
Village pump: proposals page—a place for making non-policy suggestions
Wikipedia:Help desk—Wikipedia's general help desk, if other pages have not answered the query

Research help and similar questions
Facilities to help users researching specific topics can be found at:

Wikipedia:Requested articles—to suggest or request articles for the future.
Wikipedia:Reference desk—to ask for help with any questions, or in finding specific facts.
Wikipedia:Researching with Wikipedia—for information on using Wikipedia as a research tool.

Because of the nature of Wikipedia, it is encouraged that people looking for information should try to find it themselves in the first instance. If, however, information is found to be missing from Wikipedia, be bold and add it so others can gain.
Community discussion
For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard. For specific discussion not related to article content or editor conduct, see the Village pump, which covers such subjects as milestone announcements, policy and technical discussion, and information on other specialized portals such as the help, reference and peer review desks. The Community portal is a centralized place to find things to do, collaborations, and general editing help information, and find out what is happening. The Signpost, a community-edited newspaper, has recent news regarding Wikipedia, its sister projects, and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Contacting individual Wikipedia editors
To contact individual contributors, leave a message on their talk page. Standard places to ask policy and project-related questions are the Village pump, online, and the Wikipedia mailing lists, over e-mail. Reach other Wikipedians via IRC and e-mail.
In addition, the Wikimedia Foundation Meta-Wiki is a site for coordinating the various Wikipedia projects and sister projects (and abstract discussions of policy and direction). Also available are places for submitting bug reports and feature requests.
For a full list of contact options, see Wikipedia:Contact us.
Other languages

This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,334,375 articles.  Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.

More than 1,000,000 articles:


Deutsch
Español
Français
Italiano
Nederlands
日本語
Polski
Русский
Svenska
Tiếng Việt



More than 250,000 articles:


العربية
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Català
Čeština
Euskara
فارسی
한국어
Magyar
Norsk bokmål
Português
Română
Srpski
Srpskohrvatski
Suomi
Türkçe
Українська
中文



More than 50,000 articles:


Bosanski
Български
Dansk
Eesti
Ελληνικά
English (simple form)
Esperanto
Galego
עברית
Hrvatski
Latviešu
Lietuvių
Norsk nynorsk
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
ไทย





Complete list of Wikipedias
Sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:



Commons
Free media repository

MediaWiki
Wiki software development

Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination



Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals

Wikidata
Free knowledge base

Wikinews
Free-content news



Wikiquote
Collection of quotations

Wikisource
Free-content library

Wikispecies
Directory of species



Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities

Wikivoyage
Free travel guide

Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus



Please note that while other sites may also use MediaWiki software and therefore look similar to Wikipedia, or may have a name that includes “Wiki-” or “-pedia”, or a similar domain name, the only projects which are part of the Wikimedia Foundation are those listed above and Wikipedia, even if other projects claim to be part of it.

See also
 Help desk


Help portal
Internet portal







Book: Wikipedia





For useful directories and indexes, see Wikipedia:Directory.
List of online encyclopedias
Wikipedia:A Primer for newcomers
Wikipedia:Formal organization
Wikipedia:History of Wikipedian processes and people
Wikipedia:Quality control
Wikipedia:Ten things you may not know about Wikipedia
Wikipedia:Wikipedia (disambiguation)
Wikipedia: The Missing Manual
Wikipedia power structure (Meta)

References


^ "Report card". Wikimedia. Retrieved September 3, 2015. 
^ "Milestones 2001".  Wikipedia, www.wikipedia.org.
^ Bill Thompson, "What is it with Wikipedia?" BBC, December 16, 2005.


Further reading
Main article: Bibliography of Wikipedia


Phoebe Ayers; Charles Matthews; Ben Yates (2008). How Wikipedia Works:. No Starch Press. ISBN 978-1-59327-176-3. 
John Broughton (2008). Wikipedia Reader's Guide: The Missing Manual. O'Reilly Media, Inc. ISBN 978-0-596-55387-6. 
John Broughton (2008). Wikipedia: The Missing Manual. O'Reilly Media, Inc. ISBN 978-0-596-55377-7. 
Dan O'Sullivan (24 September 2009). Wikipedia: A New Community of Practice?. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. ISBN 978-1-4094-8606-0. 
Andrew Lih (17 March 2009). The Wikipedia revolution: how a bunch of nobodies created the world's greatest encyclopedia. Hyperion. ISBN 978-1-4013-0371-6. 
Joseph Michael Reagle, Jr.; Lawrence Lessig (30 September 2010). Good Faith Collaboration: The Culture of Wikipedia. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-01447-2. 


External links

Mission statement – The Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia values – The six values of the Wikimedia Foundation
In a nutshell, what is Wikipedia? And what is the Wikimedia Foundation? – The Wikimedia Foundation
Wikimedia founding principles – Principles generally supported by all of the Wikimedia communities
Ten Simple Rules for Editing Wikipedia







v
t
e


 Basic information on Wikipedia









Main Help

Help menu


The Missing Manual
FAQs
Reference desk








About Wikipedia



Administration

Who writes Wikipedia?
Organization


Censorship
Introduction
Why create an account?
In brief
General disclaimer
What Wikipedia is not








Readers' FAQ and help



Parental advice
Navigation

Introduction


Searching
Viewing media

Help


Mobile access
Other languages
Researching with Wikipedia

Citing Wikipedia


Students help
Readers' index
Copyright
Book creation








Getting assistance



Asking questions
Requests for help

Request editor assistance
Disputes resolution requests


IRC live chat

Tutorial


Village pump
Contact us








Contributing to Wikipedia



Main tutorial

Tutorials and introductions


The answer
Dos and don'ts
Learning the ropes
Common mistakes
Newcomer primer
Plain and simple
Your first article

Wizard


Young Wikipedians

The Adventure










Rules and etiquette



Introduction
Simplified ruleset
Etiquette
Expectations of Wikipedians

Oversight


Principles

Five pillars
Ignore all rules
The rules are principles


Core content policies
Policies and guidelines

Policies
Guidelines


Vandalism
Appealing blocks








Wikipedia community



Community portal
Dashboard

Noticeboards


Departments
Maintenance
Information pages
Essays








Sourcing and referencing



Finding sources
Combining sources
Referencing

Introduction


Citations

Citation Style 1
Citation templates
Footnotes
Page numbers
Cite errors










Information



Editing

Toolbar
Conflict


VisualEditor

User guide


Category
Diffs
Email confirmation
Infoboxes
Linking

Link color


Manual of Style

Introduction
Simplified


Namespaces
Page name
URLs
User contribution pages
Using talk pages

Introduction
Archiving


Image and media files

Images
Media files










How-to



Guide to page deletion

Image deletion


Logging in
Merging pages
Page renaming

Requests


Redirecting
Reset passwords
Reverting
Uploading images

Introduction










Wiki markup



Wiki markup

Cheatsheet


Barcharts
Calculations
Columns
HTML
Lists
Magic words

For beginners


Music symbols
Sections
Sounds
Special Characters
Tables

Introduction


Templates

Documentation
Messages


Tools
Transclusion
Visual file markup

Tutorial










Directories



Abbreviations
Contents
Edit summaries
Essays
Glossary
Help
Index
Shortcuts
Tips

Tip of the day


WikiProjects
Wikis











Teahouse (interactive help for editors)
Help desk (interactive Q & A)
Ask for help on your talk page (a volunteer will visit you there)












v
t
e


Wikipedia community







For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal.
For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard.






About Wikipedia



Welcome!
Administration
Task Center
Regional notice boards
News

The Signpost
Goings-on
In the media


Meetups
Mailing lists
Awards

Reward board
Contests


Wikipedians
Statistics

Milestones


The Wikipedia Library
Centralized discussion
Village pump

Idea lab
Policy
Proposals
Technical
Miscellaneous










Contents and grading



Requested articles
Most-wanted articles
Images needing articles
Articles needing images
Articles for creation

Creation
Help


Vital articles
Today's articles for improvement
Peer review
Good article nominations
Featured article candidates

Lists
Pictures
Portals
Topics


Article translation

Pages


Main Page

Errors










WikiProjects and groups



Directory
Culture and the arts
Geographical
History and society
Science, technology and engineering
Wikipedia assistance and tasks
Patrols

Recent changes


Counter-Vandalism Unit
Version 1.0 Editorial Team
Accessibility








Maintenance tasks



Open tasks
Cleanup

Vandalism


Database reports
'As of'
Page Curation
Recent changes
Backlog
Controversial issues
Dusty articles








Administrators
and noticeboards



Admin dashboard
Admin requests
Administrators'

Incidents
Edit warring
Vandalism


Requests for closure
Revision deletion
Oversight

Request


Page protection
Sockpuppets
User permissions
Open proxies
Usernames

Changing
Title blacklist


OTRS
Bureaucrats'

Requests for adminship & bureaucratship


Arbitration Committee

Requests
Enforcement










Content dispute
resolution



Editor assistance
Requests for comment
Third opinion
Dispute resolution noticeboard

Biographies of living persons
Conflict of interest
External links
Fringe theories
Neutral point of view
No original research
Reliable sources


Mediation








Other noticeboards
and assistance



Requests for help
Asking questions

Teahouse
Help desk
Reference desk
Adopt-a-user
Online Ambassadors


Copyright assistance

Copyright investigations
Text problems
Media questions


Paid editors
Resource requests
Mergers

History mergers


Moves

Page importation


Spam

Blacklist
Whitelist


Bot owners'
Education

Incidents


New pages patrol
General sanctions
Editor sanctions
Long-term abuse








Deletion
discussions



Guide

Admin


Today
Articles
Templates
Files
Categories
Redirects
Miscellany
Speedy
Proposed

BLP
Books


Review

Undeletion


Arguments to avoid
Arguments to make
Article Rescue








Elections and votings



Requests for comment (meta)
Wikimedia Foundation elections
WP Democracy

Voting is not evil
Milestones










Directories
and summaries



Departments
Edit summary legend
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary

Abbreviations


Help
Manual of Style

Simplified


Rules

Five pillars
Policies
Guidelines


Shortcuts
Template messages

Citation templates


Tips

Today


Tools
Wikis
Wiki markup












v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:About&oldid=763958155"					
Categories: Wikipedia basic informationHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesArticles including recorded pronunciations 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsMediaWikiMeta-WikiWikispeciesWikidataWikinewsWikiquoteWikisourceWikivoyage 



Languages


AfrikaansAlemannischАҧсшәаالعربيةAragonésঅসমীয়াAsturianuAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBahasa BanjarБашҡортсаБеларускаяБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎भोजपुरीБългарскиBoarischབོད་ཡིགCatalàЧӑвашлаCebuanoCymraegDanskDeutschDiné bizaadΕλληνικάEspañolEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisFryskGalegoગુજરાતી𐌲𐌿𐍄𐌹𐍃𐌺한국어Հայերենहिन्दीIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaИронÍslenskaItalianoעבריתಕನ್ನಡKapampanganҚазақшаKiswahiliKurdîКыргызчаLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMāoriმარგალურიمصرىBahasa MelayuМонголမြန်မာဘာသာनेपाली日本語НохчийнNordfriiskNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskꆇꉙଓଡ଼ିଆਪੰਜਾਬੀភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийSámegiellaSängöScotsසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiBasa SundaSuomiSvenskaTagalogதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaతెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаئۇيغۇرچە / UyghurcheTiếng ViệtWalonWinaray吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 6 February 2017, at 06:18.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.408","walltime":"0.581","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3578,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":203732,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3986,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":5,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  338.408      1 -total"," 11.48%   38.849      1 Template:Reflist"," 10.53%   35.645      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef","  9.16%   31.005      1 Template:Cite_document","  8.14%   27.556      1 Template:Help_pages_header","  7.72%   26.141      3 Template:Navbox","  7.70%   26.060      1 Template:Mbox","  7.38%   24.967      5 Template:Sidebar","  6.12%   20.710      3 Template:Helpbox","  5.81%   19.651      1 Template:Hatnote"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.119","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":6007782,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1266","timestamp":"20170213085517","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":75,"wgHostname":"mw1275"});});
