 






Anarcho-primitivism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Flag of Anarcho-primitivism







This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (November 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)




Part of the Politics series on


Anarchism







Schools of thought


Black
Capitalist
Christian
Collectivist
Communist
Egoist
Existentialist
Feminist
Green
Individualist
Infoanarchism
Insurrectionary
Leftist
Left-wing market
Magonist
Mutualist
Naturist
Pacifist
Philosophical
Platformist
Post-anarchist
Post-colonial
Post-left
Primitivist
Queer
Social
Syndicalist
Synthesist
Vegan
Without adjectives











Theory
Practice





Anarchy
Anarchist Black Cross
Anationalism
Anti-authoritarianism
Anti-militarism
Affinity group
Black bloc
Classless society
Class struggle
Communes
Consensus democracy
Conscientious objector
Counter-economics
Decentralization
Deep ecology
Direct action
Direct democracy
Dual power
Especifismo
Expropriative anarchism
Free association
Free love
Free school
Freethought
Horizontalidad
Illegalism
Individualism
Individual reclamation
Isocracy
Law
Mutual aid
Participatory politics
Permanent autonomous zone
Prefigurative politics
Proletarian internationalism
Propaganda of the deed
Refusal of work
Revolution
Rewilding
Self-ownership
Social center
Social ecology
Social insertion
Somatherapy
Spontaneous order
Squatting
Temporary Autonomous Zone
Union of egoists








People


Émile Armand
Mikhail Bakunin
Alexander Berkman
Alfredo M. Bonanno
Murray Bookchin
Noam Chomsky
Buenaventura Durruti
Sébastien Faure
Mahatma Gandhi
William Godwin
Emma Goldman
Francesc Ferrer i Guàrdia
Peter Kropotkin
Gustav Landauer
Ricardo Flores Magón
Nestor Makhno
Errico Malatesta
Louise Michel
Johann Most
Rudolf Rocker
Murray Rothbard
Pierre-Joseph Proudhon
Diego Abad de Santillán
Lysander Spooner
Max Stirner
Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy
Benjamin Tucker
Volin
Colin Ward
Josiah Warren
John Zerzan








Issues


Anarcho-capitalism
Crypto-anarchism
Animal rights
Capitalism
Education
Criticisms
Islam
Lifestylism
Marxism
Nationalism
Orthodox Judaism
Religion
Love and sex
Violence








History


Paris Commune
Cantonal Revolution
Hague Congress
International Conference of Rome
Trial of the Thirty
Haymarket affair
May Day
Anarchist Exclusion Act
Congress of Amsterdam
Tragic Week
High Treason Incident
Manifesto of the Sixteen
Individualist anarchism in the United States
1919 United States bombings
Biennio Rosso
German Revolution of 1918–19
Bavarian Council Republic
Kronstadt rebellion
Third Russian Revolution
Free Territory
Amakasu Incident
Escuela Moderna

Individualist anarchism in
Europe (in France)

Spanish Revolution
Barcelona May Days
Red inverted triangle
Labadie Collection
May 1968
Provo
LIP
Kate Sharpley Library
Australian Anarchist Centenary
Carnival Against Capital
1999 Seattle WTO protests
Occupy movement








Culture


Films
Anarchist Bookfair
Anarcho-punk
Arts
Culture jamming
DIY culture
Freeganism
Hip hop
Independent Media Center
Infoshop
The Internationale
Jewish anarchism
"Land and liberty"
Lifestylism
"No gods, no masters"
Popular education
"Property is theft!"
Radical cheerleading
Radical environmentalism
Red and Anarchist Skinheads
Squatting
Symbolism
Glossary
A las Barricadas








Economics


Communization
Co-operatives
Cost the limit of price
Economic democracy
Economic secession
Gift economy
Give-away shop
Infoanarchism
Market abolitionism
Mass strike
Mutual aid
Participatory economics
Really Really Free Market
Socialization
Wage slavery
Workers' self-management








By region


Africa
Argentina
Australia
Azerbaijan
Bolivia
Brazil
Canada
China
Cuba
Ecuador
Egypt
France
French Guiana
Germany
Greece
India
Iceland
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Korea
Mexico
Monaco
New Zealand
Poland
Romania
Russia
Singapore
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Transnistria
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
United States
Venezuela
Vietnam








Lists


Anarcho-punk bands
Communities
Fictional characters
Jewish anarchists
Love & sex
Musicians
Organizations
Periodicals
Poets
Russian anarchists
Films








Related topics


Anti-capitalism
Anti-corporatism
Anti-consumerism
Anti-fascism
Anti-globalization
Anti-statism
Anti-war
Autarchism
Autonomism
Communism
Labour movement
Left communism
Libertarianism
Libertarian socialism
Libertarian marxism
Marxism
Situationist International
Socialism
Spontaneous order








 Anarchism portal
Politics portal







v
t
e







Part of the Politics series on


Green anarchism







Schools of thought


Anarcho-naturism
Social ecology
Anarcho-primitivism
Veganarchism








Theory and Practice


Anarchy
Animal rights
Anti-authoritarianism
Anti-consumerism
Bioregionalism
Communalism
Debate on violence
Deep ecology
Degrowth
Direct action
Do it yourself
Ecovillages
Economic secession
Freeganism
Libertarian municipalism
Lifestyle anarchism
Neo-Luddism
Neo-Malthusianism
Original affluent society
Primitive communism
Radical environmentalism
Refusal of work
Rewilding
Simple living








People


Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy
Élisée Reclus
Henri Zisly
Émile Gravelle
Isaac Puente
Noam Chomsky
Ethel Mannin
Leopold Kohr
Murray Bookchin
Fredy Perlman
Jacques Ellul
John Zerzan
Janet Biehl
Ivan Ilich








Books and Publications


Walden, or life in the woods
Iniciales
The Breakdown of Nations
Our Synthetic Environment
Post-Scarcity Anarchism
Future Primitive and Other Essays
Against Civilization
Against His-Story, Against Leviathan
Green Anarchy
Green Anarchist
A Language Older Than Words
Species Traitor
The Culture of Make Believe
Endgame








Related topics


Anarchism
Anti-capitalism
Anti-consumerism
Eco-socialism
Green politics
Libertarian socialism
Naturism








Anarchism portal
Environment portal
Politics portal







v
t
e





Anarcho-primitivism is an anarchist critique of the origins and progress of civilization. According to anarcho-primitivism, the shift from hunter-gatherer to agricultural subsistence gave rise to social stratification, coercion, alienation, and population growth. Anarcho-primitivists advocate a return to non-"civilized" ways of life through deindustrialization, abolition of the division of labor or specialization, and abandonment of large-scale organization technologies.
Many traditional anarchists reject the critique of civilization while some, such as Wolfi Landstreicher, endorse the critique but do not consider themselves anarcho-primitivists. Anarcho-primitivists are often distinguished by their focus on the praxis of achieving a feral state of being through "rewilding".[1]



Contents


1 History

1.1 Origins
1.2 Recent themes


2 Main concepts

2.1 Civilization and violence
2.2 Science and technology
2.3 Domestication

2.3.1 Rewilding and reconnection


2.4 Industrial capitalism
2.5 Consumerism and mass society
2.6 Critique of mechanical time and symbolic culture


3 As a social movement

3.1 Organizations
3.2 Revolution and reformism


4 Criticism and counter-criticism

4.1 Wording and semantics
4.2 Hypocrisy
4.3 Glorification of indigenous societies


5 See also
6 Notes
7 Bibliography
8 Further reading

8.1 Books
8.2 Periodicals
8.3 Web


9 External links



History[edit]
Origins[edit]




Walden by Henry David Thoreau, an influential early green-anarchist work.


Anarchism started to have an ecological view mainly in the writings of Henry David Thoreau. In his book Walden, he advocates simple living and self-sufficiency among natural surroundings in resistance to the advancement of industrial civilization.[2] "Many have seen in Thoreau one of the precursors of ecologism and anarcho-primitivism represented today by John Zerzan. For George Woodcock, this attitude can also be motivated by the idea of resistance to progress and the rejection of the increasing materialism that characterized North American society in the mid-19th century."[2] Zerzan himself included the text "Excursions" (1863) by Thoreau in his edited compilation of anti-civilization writings called Against Civilization: Readings and Reflections from 1999.[3]
In the late 19th century, anarchist naturism appeared as the union of anarchist and naturist philosophies.[4][5] It mainly was important within individualist anarchist circles[2][6] in Spain,[2][4][5] France[2] and Portugal.[7] Important influences in it were Henry David Thoreau,[2] Leo Tolstoy[4] and Elisee Reclus.[8] Anarcho-naturism advocated vegetarianism, free love, nudism and an ecological world view within anarchist groups and outside them.[4][6]
Anarcho-naturism promoted an ecological worldview, small ecovillages, and most prominently nudism as a way to avoid the artificiality of the industrial mass society of modernity.[4] Naturist individualist anarchists saw the individual in his biological, physical and psychological aspects and avoided and tried to eliminate social determinations.[9] Important promoters of this were Henri Zisly and Emile Gravelle who collaborated in La Nouvelle Humanité followed by Le Naturien, Le Sauvage, L'Ordre Naturel, and La Vie Naturelle [10] Their ideas were important in individualist anarchist circles in France but also in Spain where Federico Urales (pseudonym of Joan Montseny), promotes the ideas of Gravelle and Zisly in La Revista Blanca (1898–1905).[11]
This tendency was strong enough as to call the attention of the CNT–FAI in Spain. Daniel Guérin, in Anarchism: From Theory to Practice, reports how "Spanish anarcho-syndicalism had long been concerned to safeguard the autonomy of what it called "affinity groups". There were many adepts of naturism and vegetarianism among its members, especially among the poor peasants of the south. Both these ways of living were considered suitable for the transformation of the human being in preparation for a stateless society. At the Zaragoza congress, the members did not forget to consider the fate of groups of naturists and nudists, "unsuited to industrialization." As these groups would be unable to supply all their own needs, the congress anticipated that their delegates to the meetings of the confederation of communes would be able to negotiate special economic agreements with the other agricultural and industrial communes. On the eve of a vast, bloody, social transformation, the CNT did not think it foolish to try to meet the infinitely varied aspirations of individual human beings."[12]
Recent themes[edit]
Anarchists contribute to an anti-authoritarian push, which challenges all abstract power on a fundamental level, striving for egalitarian relationships and promoting communities based upon mutual aid. Primitivists, however, extend ideas of non-domination to all life, not just human life, going beyond the traditional anarchist's analysis. From by anthropologists, primitivists look at the origins of civilization so as to understand what they are up against and how they got here in order to inform a change in direction. Inspired by the Luddites, primitivists rekindle an anti-technological orientation. Insurrectionalists do not believe in waiting for critiques to be fine-tuned, instead spontaneously attacking civilization's current institutions.
Primitivists may owe much to the Situationists and their critique of the ideas in The Society of the Spectacle and alienation from a commodity-based society. Deep ecology informs the primitivist perspective with an understanding that the well-being of all life is linked to the awareness of the inherent worth and intrinsic value of the non-human world, independent of its economic value. Primitivists see deep ecology's appreciation for the richness and diversity of life as contributing to the realization that present human interference with the non-human world is coercive and excessive.
Bioregionalists bring the perspective of living within one's bioregion, and being intimately connected to the land, water, climate, plants, animals, and general patterns of their bioregion.
Some primitivists have been influenced by the various indigenous cultures. Primitivists attempt to learn and incorporate sustainable techniques for survival and healthier ways of interacting with life. Some are also inspired by the feral subculture, where people abandon domestication and have re-integrate themselves with the wild.
Main concepts[edit]



"Anarchy is the order of the day among hunter-gatherers. Indeed, critics will ask why a small face-to-face group needs a government anyway. [...] If this is so we can go further and say that since the egalitarian hunting-gathering society is the oldest type of human society and prevailed for the longest period of time – over thousands of decades – then anarchy must be the oldest and one of the most enduring kinds of polity. Ten thousand years ago everyone was an anarchist."


Harold Barclay, American anthropologist[13]
Some anarcho-primitivists state that prior to the advent of agriculture, humans lived in small, nomadic bands which were socially, politically, and economically egalitarian. Being without hierarchy, these bands are sometimes viewed as embodying a form of anarchism. John Moore writes that anarcho-primitivism seeks "to expose, challenge and abolish all the multiple forms of power that structure the individual, social relations, and interrelations with the natural world."[14]
Primitivists hold that, following the emergence of agriculture, the growing masses of humanity became evermore beholden to technology ("technoaddiction") [15] and abstract power structures arising from the division of labor and hierarchy. Primitivists disagree over what degree of horticulture might be present in an anarchist society, with some arguing that permaculture could have a role but others advocating a strictly hunter-gatherer subsistence.
Primitivism has drawn heavily upon cultural anthropology and archaeology. From the 1960s forward, societies once viewed as "barbaric" were reevaluated by academics, some of whom now hold that early humans lived in relative peace and prosperity in what has been called the "original affluent society". Frank Hole, an early-agriculture specialist, and Kent Flannery, a specialist in Mesoamerican civilization, have noted that, "No group on earth has more leisure time than hunters and gatherers, who spend it primarily on games, conversation and relaxing."[16][17] Jared Diamond, in the article "The Worst Mistake in the History of the Human Race",[18] said hunter-gatherers practice the most successful and longest-lasting life style in human history, in contrast with agriculture, which he described as a "mess" and that it is "unclear whether we can solve it". Based on evidence that life expectancy has decreased with the adoption of agriculture, the anthropologist Mark Nathan Cohen has called for the need to revise the traditional idea that civilization represents progress in human well-being.[19]
Scholars such as Karl Polanyi and Marshall Sahlins characterized primitive societies as gift economies with "goods valued for their utility or beauty rather than cost; commodities exchanged more on the basis of need than of exchange value; distribution to the society at large without regard to labor that members have invested; labor performed without the idea of a wage in return or individual benefit, indeed largely without the notion of 'work' at all."[20] Other scholars such as Paul Shepard, influenced by anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss, have written of the "evolutionary principle", which states that when a species is removed from its natural habitat, its behaviors will become pathological. Shepard has written at length on ways in which the human species' natural "ontogeny", which developed through millions of years of evolution in a foraging mode of existence, has been disrupted due to a sedentary lifestyle caused by agriculture.[21]
Civilization and violence[edit]
Anarcho-primitivists view civilization as the logic, institution, and physical apparatus of domestication, control, and domination. They focus primarily on the question of origins. Civilization is seen as the underlying problem or root of oppression, and must therefore be dismantled or destroyed.
Anarcho-primitivists describe the rise of civilization as the shift over the past 10,000 years from an existence deeply connected to the web of life, to one psychologically separated from and attempting to control the rest of life. They state that prior to civilization, there generally existed ample leisure time, considerable gender equality and social equality, a non-destructive and uncontrolling approach to the natural world, the absence of organized violence, no mediating or formal institutions, and strong health and robustness. Anarcho-primitivists state that civilization inaugurated mass warfare, the subjugation of women, population growth, busy work, concepts of property, entrenched hierarchies, as well as encouraging the spread of diseases. They claim that civilization begins with and relies on an enforced renunciation of instinctual freedom and that it is impossible to reform away such a renunciation.
Anarcho-primitivists,[22] based on several anthropological references,[23][24] state that hunter-gatherer societies are less susceptible to war, violence, and disease.[25][26][27] However, some, such as Jared Diamond, contest this, citing that many tribe-based people are more prone to violence than developed states.[28][29]
Some authors have criticized the anarcho-primitivist argument that hierarchy and mass violence result from civilization, citing the example of dominance and territorial struggles observed in chimpanzees.[30][improper synthesis?] Some thinkers within anarcho-primitivism such as Pierre Clastres offer an anthropological explanation of the necessity of a certain amount of violence, while embracing anarchy as the natural balance for primitive societies.[31]
Science and technology[edit]
Some primitivists reject modern science as a method of understanding the world with a view to change it. Science is not considered to be neutral by many primitivists, but rather loaded with the motives and assumptions that come out of, and reinforce, civilization.
Modern scientific thought, according to primitivists, attempts to see the world as a collection of separate objects to be observed and understood. In order to accomplish this task, primitivists believe that scientists must distance themselves emotionally and physically, to have a one-way channel of information moving from the observed thing to the observer's self, which is defined as not a part of that thing.
Primitivists argue that this mechanistic worldview is tantamount to being the dominant religion of current times. Believing that science seeks to deal only with the quantitative, primitivists suggest that it does not admit subjective values or emotions. While primitivists perceive science as claiming that only those things that are reproducible, predictable, and the same for all observers are real and important, primitivists believe that reality itself is not reproducible, predictable, or the same for all observers. Primitivists also see science as promoting the idea that anomalous experience, ideas, and people should be cast off or destroyed like imperfectly shaped machine components.
Primitivists also see modern science as another form of mediation between humans and the natural world, resulting in further alienation from their environment. Instead, primitivists believe that individual knowledge should be based on individual experience, rather than accepting another's dogma as fact. For example, primitivists do not deny the theory of gravitation, as it is easy to observe everything in the world adhering to gravity in our day-to-day lives. However, when the theory of gravitation becomes dogmatic and handed down from generation to generation as a social dogma, rather than relying on individuals to grow and realize the facts about their environment in their own terms, it alienates people from coming to conclusions about their environment by themselves, and stunts the natural ability of humans to investigate and adapt to their own environment.
Primitivists denounce modern technology, but some use modern technology on the basis that civilization has destroyed other means of communication, leaving them with no other option. Primitivists see technology as a system involving division of labor, resource extraction, and exploitation by those who implement its process.
Modern technology is held by primitivists to be distinct from simple tools: a simple tool is considered a temporary usage of an element within our immediate surroundings for a specific task. Tools are not viewed as involving complex systems which alienate the user from the act. Primitivists claim that this separation is implicit in technology, which creates an unhealthy and mediated experience which leads to various forms of authority. Domination is said to increase every time a modern "time-saving" technology is created, as primitivists claim it necessitates the construction of more technology to support, fuel, maintain, and repair the original technology. Primitivists believe that this system methodically destroys, eliminates, or subordinates the natural world, constructing a world fit only for machines.
Domestication[edit]




A caravan park at Beer, in South Devon, England


Anarcho-primitivists, such as John Zerzan, define domestication as "the will to dominate animals and plants", and says that domestication is "civilization's defining basis".[32]
They also describe it as the process by which previously nomadic human populations shifted towards a sedentary or settled existence through agriculture and animal husbandry. They claim that this kind of domestication demands a totalitarian relationship with both the land and the plants and animals being domesticated. They say that whereas, in a state of wildness, all life shares and competes for resources, domestication destroys this balance. Domesticated landscape (e.g. pastoral lands/agricultural fields and, to a lesser degree, horticulture and gardening) ends the open sharing of resources; where "this was everyone's," it is now "mine." Anarcho-primitivists state that this notion of ownership laid the foundation for social hierarchy as property and power emerged. It also involved the destruction, enslavement, or assimilation of other groups of early people who did not make such a transition.
To primitivists, domestication enslaves both the domesticated species as well as the domesticators. Advances in the fields of psychology, anthropology, and sociology allows humans to quantify and objectify themselves, until they too become commodities.
Rewilding and reconnection[edit]
For most primitivist anarchists, rewilding and reconnecting with the earth is a life project. They state that it should not be limited to intellectual comprehension or the practice of primitive skills, but, instead, that it is a deep understanding of the pervasive ways in which we are domesticated, fractured, and dislocated from ourselves, each other, and the world. Rewilding is understood as having a physical component which involves reclaiming skills and developing methods for a sustainable co-existence, including how to feed, shelter, and heal ourselves with the plants, animals, and materials occurring naturally in our bioregions. It is also said to include the dismantling of the physical manifestations, apparatus, and infrastructure of civilization.
Rewilding is also described as having an emotional component, which involves healing ourselves and each other from what are perceived as 10,000-year-old wounds, learning how to live together in non-hierarchical and non-oppressive communities, and de-constructing the domesticating mindset in our social patterns. To the primitivist, "rewilding includes prioritizing direct experience and passion over mediation and alienation, re-thinking every dynamic and aspect of reality, connecting with our feral fury to defend our lives and to fight for a liberated existence, developing more trust in our intuition and being more connected to our instincts, and regaining the balance that has been virtually destroyed after thousands of years of patriarchal control and domestication. Rewilding is the process of becoming uncivilized."
Industrial capitalism[edit]





This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)



The industrial way of life leads to the industrial way of death. From Shiloh to Dachau, from Antietam to Stalingrad, from Hiroshima to Vietnam and Afghanistan, the great specialty of industry and technology has been the mass production of human corpses.
— Edward Abbey[33]

According to primitivists, a key component of modern techno-capitalist structure is industrialism, which cannot exist, they say, without genocide, ecocide, and colonialism. They further say that to maintain it, coercion, land evictions, forced labor, cultural destruction, assimilation, ecological devastation, and global trade are accepted as necessary, even benign. Primitivists claim industrialism's standardization of life objectifies and commodifies it, viewing all life as a potential resource. They see their critique of industrialism as a natural extension of the anarchist critique of the state because they see industrialism as inherently authoritarian.
The primitivist argument against industrialism is that, in order to maintain an industrial society, one must set out to colonize lands in order to acquire non-renewable resources, and that the colonialism is rationalized by racism, sexism, and cultural chauvinism. Additionally, in order to make people work in the factories that produce the machines, they must be made dependent on the industrial system.
Primitivists hold that industrialism cannot exist without massive centralization and specialization. Furthermore, they hold that industrialism demands that resources be shipped from all over the globe in order to perpetuate its existence, and this globalism, they say, undermines local autonomy and self-sufficiency.
Finally, primitivists contend that an engineeric worldview is behind industrialism, and that this same world-view has justified slavery, genocide, ecocide, and the subjugation of women.
Consumerism and mass society[edit]
Brian Sheppard asserts that anarcho-primitivism is not a form of anarchism at all. In Anarchism vs. Primitivism he says: "In recent decades, groups of quasi-religious mystics have begun equating the primitivism they advocate (rejection of science, rationality, and technology often lumped together under a blanket term "technology") with anarchism. In reality, the two have nothing to do with each other."[34]
Andrew Flood agrees with this assertion and points out that primitivism clashes with what he identifies as the fundamental goal of anarchism: "the creation of a free mass society".[35]
Primitivists do not believe that a "mass society" can be free. They believe industry and agriculture inevitably lead to hierarchy and alienation. They argue that the division of labor that techno-industrial societies require to function force people into reliance on factories and the labor of other specialists to produce their food, clothing, shelter, and other necessities and that this dependence forces them to remain a part of this society, whether they like it or not.[36]
On the other hand, some do not think of industrialization as a coercive force, and merely advocate a primitivist lifestyle for environmental reasons.
Critique of mechanical time and symbolic culture[edit]
Some anarcho-primitivists view the shift towards an increasingly symbolic culture as highly problematic in the sense that it separates us from direct interaction. Often the response to this, by those who assume that it means that primitivists prefer to completely eliminate all forms of symbolic culture, is something to the effect of, "So, you just want to grunt?"[37]
However, typically the critique regards the problems inherent within a form of communication and comprehension that relies primarily on symbolic thought at the expense (and even exclusion) of other sensual and unmediated means of comprehension. The emphasis on the symbolic is a departure from direct experience into mediated experience in the form of language, art, number, time, etc.
Anarcho-primitivists state that symbolic culture filters our entire perception through formal and informal symbols and separates us from direct and unmediated contact with reality. It goes beyond just giving things names, and extends to having an indirect relationship with a distorted image of the world that has passed through the lens of representation. It is debatable whether humans are "hard-wired" for symbolic thought, or if it developed as a cultural change or adaptation, but, according to anarcho-primitivists, the symbolic mode of expression and understanding is limited and deceptive, and over-dependence upon it leads to objectification, alienation, and perceptual tunnel vision. Many anarcho-primitivists promote and practice getting back in touch with and rekindling dormant and/or underutilized methods of interaction and cognition, such as touch and smell, as well as experimenting with and developing unique and personal modes of comprehension and expression.
Because there are some primitivists who have extended their critique of symbolic culture to language itself, Georgetown University professor Mark Lance describes this particular theory of primitivism as "literally insane, for proper communication is necessary to create within the box a means to destroy the box."[38]
As a social movement[edit]





This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


Organizations[edit]
In the United States anarcho-primitivism has been notably advocated by writers John Zerzan and Kevin Tucker. The anarcho-primitivist movement has connections to radical environmentalism, gaining some attention due to the ideas of Theodore Kaczynski ("the Unabomber") following his Luddite bombing campaign. Recently anarcho-primitivism has been enthusiastically explored by Green Anarchy, Species Traitor, and occasionally Anarchy: A Journal of Desire Armed, and even CrimethInc. The current anarcho-primitivist movement originated in the journal Fifth Estate, and was developed over a series of years in the 1970s and 1980s by writers such as Fredy Perlman, David Watson, Bob Brubaker and John Zerzan. Vast theoretical differences between Watson's and Zerzan's forms of primitivism caused a split in the late 1980s.
During the 1990s, the UK magazine Green Anarchist aligned itself with anarcho-primitivism, although there are many green anarchists who are not anarcho-primitivists.
Anti-civilization anarchists also organize groups in Spain, Israel, Turkey, Sweden, Finland, and India.
Anarcho-primitivism is associated with and has influenced the radical tendencies within Neo-Tribalism.
Revolution and reformism[edit]





This section possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (January 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)


Primitivists do not see themselves as part of the left (see post-left anarchy). Rather they view the socialist and liberal orientations as corrupt. Primitivists argue that the Left has proven itself to be a failure in its objectives. The Left, according to primitivists, is a general term and can roughly describe all socialist leanings (from social democrats and liberals to communists) which wish to re-socialize "the masses" into a more "progressive" agenda or the creation of political parties. While primitivists understand that the methods or extremes in implementation may differ, the overall push is seen as the same: the institution of a collectivized and monolithic world-view based on morality.
Some primitivists have been even more hostile towards modern leftism, with Ted Kaczynski's Industrial Society and Its Future dedicating whole sections to the problems with modern leftism.
As anarchists, primitivists are fundamentally opposed to government, and likewise, any sort of collaboration or mediation with the state (or any institution of hierarchy and control)—except as a matter of tactical expediency. This position determines a certain continuity or direction of strategy, historically referred to as revolution. By revolution, primitivists mean the ongoing struggle to alter the social and political landscape in a fundamental way. The word "revolution" is seen as dependent on the position from which it is directed, as well as what would be termed "revolutionary" activity. Again, for anarchists, this is activity which is aimed at the complete dissolution of abstract power.
Reform, on the other hand, is seen as entailing any activity or strategy aimed at adjusting, altering, or selectively maintaining elements of the current system, typically utilizing the methods or apparatus of that system. The goals and methods of revolution, it is argued, cannot be dictated by, nor performed within, the context of the system. For anarchists, revolution and reform invoke incompatible methods and aims, and despite the use of certain pragmatic expedient approaches, do not exist on a continuum.
For primitivists, revolutionary activity questions, challenges, and works to dismantle the entire set-up or paradigm of civilization. Revolution is not seen as a far-off or distant singular event which we build towards or prepare people for, but instead, a way of life, or a practice of approaching situations.
Criticism and counter-criticism[edit]
Notable critics of anarcho-primitivism include post-left anarchists Wolfi Landstreicher[39] and Jason McQuinn,[40] Ted Kaczynski (the "Unabomber"),[41] and, especially, libertarian socialist Murray Bookchin, as seen in his polemical work entitled Social Anarchism or Lifestyle Anarchism.
Wording and semantics[edit]
Activist writer Derrick Jensen's wrote in Walking on Water that he is often classified as a "Luddite" and "an anarcho-primitivist. Both of these labels fit well enough, I suppose."[42] Others, too, have designated his work with the latter term;[43][44] however, more recently, Jensen began to categorically reject the "primitivist" label, describing it as a "racist way to describe indigenous peoples." He prefers to be called "indigenist" or an "ally to the indigenous."[45]
Hypocrisy[edit]
A common criticism is of hypocrisy: that people rejecting civilization typically maintain a civilized lifestyle themselves, often while still using the very industrial technology that they oppose in order to spread their message. Jensen counters that this criticism merely resorts to an ad hominem argument, attacking individuals but not the actual validity of their beliefs.[46] He further responds that working to entirely avoid such hypocrisy is ineffective, self-serving, and a convenient misdirection of activist energies.[47] Primitivist John Zerzan admits that living with this hypocrisy is a necessary evil for continuing to contribute to the larger intellectual conversation:[48] an "unavoidable contradiction" that he "just strive[s] to be transparent about."[49]
Glorification of indigenous societies[edit]
Wolfi Landstreicher and Jason McQuinn, post-leftists, have both criticized the romanticized exaggerations of indigenous societies and the pseudoscientific (and even mystical) appeal to nature they perceive in anarcho-primitivist ideology and deep ecology.[40][50] Zerzan has countered that the anarcho-primitivist view is not idealizing the indigenous, but, rather, "has been the mainstream view presented in anthropology and archeology textbooks for the past few decades. It sounds utopian, but it's now the generally accepted paradigm."[51] Ted Kaczynski similarly criticizes anarcho-primitivism for portraying pre-civilized hunter-gatherers as innocent and pacifistic,[52] yet one supporting example of his focuses on post-civilized Australian Aborigines and their mistreatment of women, a temptation that social anthropologist Douglas P. Fry warns of: using modern-day foraging societies, rather than the archeological evidence, to inductively argue about ancient foraging societies. Fry contends that all of today's existing tribal societies are post-civilized: influenced by global civilization—"irrevocably impacted by history and modern colonial nation states"—many for at least 5000 years.[53]
See also[edit]





Book: Anarcho-primitivism






Antimodernism
Degrowth
Doomer
Eco-communalism
Agrarian socialism
Ecofeminism
Environmental ethics
Green anarchism
Green Anarchy
Hunter-gatherer
Earth liberation
Evolutionary psychology
Deindustrialization
Post-left anarchy
Idea of Progress
Neo-Luddism
Primitive communism
Neo-Tribalism
Noble savage
Romanticism
State of nature
Survivalism


Notes[edit]


^ Anarcho-primitivism[full citation needed]
^ a b c d e f Diez, Xavier Diez. "La Insumisión Voluntaria: El Anarquismo Individualista Español Durante La Dictadura Y La Segunda República (1923–1938)" [Draft Avoidance: Spanish Individualistic Anarchism During the Dictatorship and the Second Republic (1923–1938)] (in Spanish). Archived from the original on 26 May 2006. Su obra más representativa es Walden, aparecida en 1854, aunque redactada entre 1845 y 1847, cuando Thoreau decide instalarse en el aislamiento de una cabaña en el bosque, y vivir en íntimo contacto con la naturaleza, en una vida de soledad y sobriedad. De esta experiencia, su filosofía trata de transmitirnos la idea que resulta necesario un retorno respetuoso a la naturaleza, y que la felicidad es sobre todo fruto de la riqueza interior y de la armonía de los individuos con el entorno natural. Muchos han visto en Thoreau a uno de los precursores del ecologismo y del anarquismo primitivista representado en la actualidad por John Zerzan. Para George Woodcock(8), esta actitud puede estar también motivada por una cierta idea de resistencia al progreso y de rechazo al materialismo creciente que caracteriza la sociedad norteamericana de mediados de siglo XIX. 

Translated: "His most representative work is Walden, published in 1854, although redacted between 1845 and 1847 when Thoreau decided to move to an isolated cabin in the woods and live in intimate contact with nature in a solitary and sober life. His philosophy, from this experience, attempts to transmit the idea that a return to respecting nature is necessary, and that happiness is, above all, a fruit of inner richness and harmony between individuals and the natural environment. Many have seen Thoreau as a precursor to ecologism and anarcho-primitism, actualized by John Zerzan. For Woodcock (8), this attitude can also be motivated by the idea of resistance to progress and the rejection of the increasing materialism that characterized North American society in the mid-19th century."


^ Zerzan, John, ed. (2005). Against Civilization: Readings and Reflections. Feral House. ISBN 0-922915-98-9. 
^ a b c d e Roselló, Josep Maria. "El Naturismo Libertario (1890–1939)" [Libertarian Naturism (1890–1939)] (PDF) (in Spanish). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 January 2016. 
^ a b Ortega, Carlos. "Anarchism, Nudism, Naturism". 
^ a b Ytak, Cathy. "Anarchisme et naturisme, aujourd'hui" [Anarchism and Naturism Today] (in French). Archived from the original on 25 February 2009. Les anarchistes individualistes du début du siècle l'avaient bien compris, et intégraient le naturisme dans leurs préoccupations. Il est vraiment dommage que ce discours se soit peu à peu effacé, d'antan plus que nous assistons, en ce moment, à un retour en force du puritanisme (conservateur par essence). [self-published source]

Translated: The individualist anarchists of the early century had understood and incorporated naturism in their concerns. It is a shame that this discourse has gradually cleared, and that most of the past that we are witnessing right now is a resurgence of Puritanism (conservative by nature).


^ Freire, João. "Anarchisme et naturisme au Portugal, dans les années 1920" [Anarchism and naturism in Portugal in the 1920s]. Les anarchistes du Portugal [The Anarchists of Portugal] (in French). ISBN 2-9516163-1-7. '
^ "The pioneers". Natustar. Archived from the original on 25 October 2012. 
^ "El individuo es visto en su dimensión biológica -física y psíquica- dejándose la social." (Roselló)
^ "The Daily Bleed". [self-published source]
^ Morán, Agustín. "Los origenes del naturismo libertario" [The origins of libertarian naturism] (in Spanish). 
^ Guérin, Daniel. "Anarchism: From theory to practice". 
^ Barclay, Harold (1996). People Without Government: An Anthropology of Anarchy. Kahn & Averill. ISBN 1-871082-16-1. 
^ Moore, John. "A Primitivist Primer: What is anarcho-primitivism?". [self-published source]
^ Boyden, Stephen Vickers (1992). "Biohistory: The interplay between human society and the biosphere, past and present". Man and the Biosphere Series. Pari: UNESCO. 8 (supplement 173). doi:10.1021/es00028a604. 
^ Sale, Kirkpatrick (1985). Dwellers in the Land: The Bioregional Vision. Sierra Club Books. ISBN 0-87156-847-0. OCLC 11811919. [page needed]
^ Gowdy, John M. (1998). Limited Wants, Unlimited Means: A Reader on Hunter-Gatherer Economics. Island Press. p. 265. ISBN 1-55963-555-X. 
^ Diamond, Jared (May 1987). "The Worst Mistake in the History of the Human Race". Discover Magazine. 
^ Nathan Cohen, Mark (1991). Health and the Rise of Civilization. Yale University Press. ISBN 0-300-05023-2. 
^ Zerzan, John (1994). Future Primitive and Other Essays. Autonomedia. ISBN 1-57027-000-7. Archived from the original on 28 September 2007. 
^ "Paul Shepard". Archived from the original on 28 November 2011. [self-published source]
^ Zerzan, John (2002). Running on Emptiness: The Pathology of Civilization. Feral House. ISBN 0-922915-75-X. [page needed]
^ Sahlins, Marshall (2003). Stone Age Economics. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-32010-0. [page needed]
^ Lee, Richard (1979). The !Kung San: Men, Women and Work in a Foraging Society. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-29561-0. 
^ Schultz, Emily; Lavenda, Robert. "The Consequences of Domestication and Sedentism". 
^ Elman, Service (1972). The Hunters. Prentice Hall. ASIN B000JNRGPK. 
^ Kelly, Robert L. (1995). The Foraging Spectrum: Diversity in Hunter-Gatherer Lifeways. Washington: Smithsonian Institution. ISBN 1-56098-465-1. 
^ Keely, Lawrence (1996). War Before Civilization: the Myth of the Peaceful Savage. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780199880706. 
^ Hamilton, Andrew. "Debunking Another Lie: Lawrence H. Keeley's War Before Civilization: The Myth of the Peaceful Savage". 
^ Goodall, Jane (2000). Reason for hope. Grand Central Publishing. p. 127. ISBN 978-0-446-67613-7. 
^ Clastres, Pierre (1994). Archeology of Violence. Semiotext(e). ISBN 0-936756-95-0. [page needed]
^ Zerzan, John (2008). Twilight of the Machines. Feral House. p. 55. ISBN 978-1-932595-31-4. 
^ Abbey, Edward. The Guardian, April 21, 2004.
^ Sheppard, Brian. "Anarchism vs. Primitivism". 
^ Flood, Andrew (2005). "Is primitivism realistic? An anarchist reply to John Zerzan and others". Anarchist Newswire. 
^ Wilson, Chris. "Against Mass Society". 
^ The Green Anarchy Collective. "An Introduction to Anti-Civilization Anarchist Thought". Archived from the original on 12 December 2008. 
^ Lance, Mark from lecture Anarchist Practice, Rational Democracy, and Community NCOR (2004). Audio files
^ Landstreicher, Wolfi (2007). "A Critique, Not a Program: For a Non-Primitivist Anti-Civilization Critique". 
^ a b McQuinn, Jason. "Why I am not a Primitivist". 
^ Kaczynski, Ted. "The Truth About Primitive Life: A Critique of Anarchoprimitivism". It seems obvious, for example, that the politically correct portrayal of hunter-gatherers is motivated in part by an impulse to construct an image of a pure and innocent world existing at the dawn of time, analogous to the Garden of Eden," and calls the evidence of the violence of hunter-gatherers "incontrovertible. 
^ Jensen, Derrick (2005). Walking on Water. p. 223. ISBN 9781931498784. 
^ Esbjörn-Hargens, Sean; Zimmerman, Michael E. (2009). Integral Ecology: Uniting Multiple Perspectives on the Natural World. Shambhala Publications. p. 492. ISBN 9781590304662. 
^ Torres, Bob (2007). Making a Killing: The Political Economy of Animal Rights. p. 68. ISBN 9781904859673. 
^ Blunt, Zoe (2011). "Uncivilized". Canadian Dimension. Retrieved 24 May 2011. 
^ Jensen, Derrick (2006). The Problem of Civilization. Endgame. 1. New York City: Seven Stories Press. p. 128. ISBN 978-1-58322-730-5. 
^ Jensen, 2006, pp. 173–174: "[Although it's] vital to make lifestyle choices to mitigate damage caused by being a member of industrial civilization... to assign primary responsibility to oneself, and to focus primarily on making oneself better, is an immense copout, an abrogation of responsibility. With all the world at stake, it is self-indulgent, self-righteous, and self-important. It is also nearly ubiquitous. And it serves the interests of those in power by keeping our focus off them."
^ "Anarchy in the USA". The Guardian. London. 20 April 2001. 
^ Vorel, Jim (2012). "Host of 'Anarchy Radio' to speak about growth of society". The Daily Illini. [permanent dead link]
^ Landstreicher, Wolfi. "The Network of Domination". 
^ Harmon, James L., ed. (2010). "unknown+to+most" Take My Advice: Letters to the Next Generation from People Who Know a Thing or Two. Simon and Schuster. 
^ Kaczynski, Ted. "The Truth About Primitive Life: A Critique of Anarchoprimitivism". 
^ Fry, Douglas P. (2013). War, Peace, and Human Nature: The Convergence of Evolutionary and Cultural Views. Oxford University Press. pp. 171–3. 


Bibliography[edit]

Kaczynski, Theodore (2008). The Road to Revolution. Xenia Editions. p. 327. ISBN 978-2-88892-065-6. 

Further reading[edit]
Books[edit]

AbdelRahim, Layla (2015). Children’s Literature, Domestication, and Social Foundation: Narratives of Civilization and Wilderness. New York: Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-66110-2. 
AbdelRahim, Layla (2013). Wild Children – Domesticated Dreams: Civilization and the Birth of Education. Halifax: Fernwood. ISBN 978-1-552-66548-0. 
Booth, Stephen (2001). Primitivism an Illusion With No Future. Green Anarchist. ISBN 0-9521226-3-4. 
Diamond, Stanley (1974). In Search of the Primitive: A Critique of Civilization. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 978-0-87855-582-6. 
Ellul, Jacques (1964). The Technological Society. New York: Knopf. ISBN 9780394703909. 
Gagliano, Giuseppe (2010). Il ritorno alla Madre Terra. L'utopia verde tra ecologia radicale e ecoterrorismo [The return to Mother Earth. The green utopia between radical ecology and eco-terrorism] (in Italian). Editrice Uniservice. p. 229. ISBN 978-88-6178-595-3. 
Glendinning, Chellis (1994). My Name is Chellis and I'm in Recovery from Western Civilization. Shambhala. ISBN 0-87773-996-X. 
Humphrey, Matthew (2007). "Anarcho-primitivism and direct action politics". Ecological Politics And Democratic Theory: The Challenge to the Deliberative Ideal. Psychology Press. ISBN 978-0-415-31431-2. 
Jensen, Derrick (2000). A Language Older Than Words. New York: Context Books. ISBN 1-893956-03-2. 
Jensen, Derrick (2002). The Culture of Make Believe. New York: Context Books. ISBN 1-893956-28-8. 
Kaczynski, Theodore (1996) [1995]. The Unabomber Manifesto: Industrial Society and Its Future (3rd ed.). Berkeley: Jolly Roger Press. ISBN 0-9634205-2-6. 
Mander, Jerry (1992). In the Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of Technology and the Survival of the Indian Nations. Sierra Club Books. ISBN 9780871565099. 
Perlman, Fredy (1983). Against His-Story, Against Leviathan!. Detroit: Black & Red Books. ISBN 9780934868259. 
Quinn, Daniel (1992). Ishmael. New York: Bantam. ISBN 0-553-07875-5. 
Taylor, Bron (2010). Dark Green Religion: Nature Spirituality and the Planetary Future. University of California Press. pp. 91 onwards. ISBN 978-0-520-26100-6. 
Tucker, Kevin (2009). For Wildness and Anarchy. Greensburg, PA: Black and Green Press. 
Watson, David (1998). Against the Megamachine. Brooklyn: Autonomedia. ISBN 1-57027-087-2. 
Zerzan, John (1999). Elements of refusal. Columbia, Mo.: C.A.L. Press/Paleo Editions. ISBN 9781890532017. 
James Luchte (2012). Of the Feral Children. London: Createspace. ISBN 1479294888. 

Periodicals[edit]

Green Anarchy: An Anti-Civilization Journal of Theory and Action
Species Traitor: An Insurrectionary Anarcho-Primitivist Journal
Disorderly Conduct (journal)
Fifth Estate: An Anti-Authoritarian Magazine of Ideas and Action

Web[edit]

Kaczynski, Ted (1999). "Ship of Fools". OFF! Magazine (student zine at SUNY Binghamton). Binghamton, New York. Archived from the original on 31 December 2005. 
Kosman, Mark. "Marx, Engels, Luxemburg and the Return to Primitive Communism". 

External links[edit]

5 Common Objections to Primitivism, and Why They're Wrong (Archived[dead link] 2006-02-07)—an anarcho-primitivist response to common criticisms
Beyond the Symbolic and towards the Collapse—introduction to John Zerzan's conferences in Montreal by Layla AbdelRahim
Collection of early anarcho-primitivist articles published in Fifth Estate
In the Land of the Living: a journal of anarcho-primitivism and Christianity
Resources for Green Anarchism and Christianity at Jesus Radicals







v
t
e


Simple living






Practices



Barter
DIY ethic
Downshifting
Dry toilet
Forest gardening
Freeganism
Frugality
Gift economy
Intentional community
Local currency
Low-impact development
Minimalism
No frills
Off-the-grid
Permaculture
Self-sufficiency
Subsistence agriculture
Sustainable living
Sustainable sanitation
Veganism
Vegetarianism
War tax resistance
WWOOF








Religious and spiritual



Asceticism
Aparigraha
Cynicism
Detachment
Distributism
Jesus movement
Mendicant
Mindfulness
Monasticism
New Monasticism
Plain dress
Plain people
Quakers
Rastafari
Temperance
Testimony of simplicity
Tolstoyan movement








Secular movements



Back-to-the-land
Car-free
Compassionate living
Environmental
Hippie
Slow
Small house
Transition town
Open Source Ecology








Notable writers



Wendell Berry
Ernest Callenbach
G. K. Chesterton
Duane Elgin
Mahatma Gandhi
Richard Gregg
Tom Hodgkinson
Harlan Hubbard
Satish Kumar
Helen Nearing
Scott Nearing
Peace Pilgrim
Vicki Robin
Nick Rosen
Dugald Semple
E. F. Schumacher
Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy








Modern-day adherents



Mark Boyle
Jim Merkel
Suelo
Thomas








Media



"Anekdote zur Senkung der Arbeitsmoral"
Escape from Affluenza
The Good Life
The Moon and the Sledgehammer
Mother Earth News
The Power of Half
Small Is Beautiful
Walden








Related topics



Affluenza
Agrarianism
Anarcho-primitivism
Anti-consumerism
Appropriate technology
Bohemianism
Deep ecology
Degrowth
Ecological footprint
Food miles
Green anarchism
The good life
Global warming
Hedonophobia
Intentional living
Itinerant
Low-technology
Nonviolence
Peak oil
Sustainability
Work–life balance









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Anarcho-primitivism&oldid=761365845"					
Categories: Anarcho-primitivismCultural anthropologyPolitical ideologiesSimple livingSocial philosophyCriticism of scienceHidden categories: Articles needing more detailed referencesCS1 Spanish-language sources (es)CS1 French-language sources (fr)Accuracy disputes from December 2013Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from January 2011All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from October 2016Articles with permanently dead external linksUse dmy dates from May 2016Articles that may contain original research from November 2010All articles that may contain original researchArticles that may contain original research from November 2009Articles needing additional references from December 2013All articles needing additional referencesArticles that may contain original research from January 2017CS1 Italian-language sources (it)Articles with dead external links from August 2016 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


БългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoFrançais한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתLatinaLietuviųNederlandsNedersaksiesNorsk bokmålOccitanPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSlovenčinaSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTürkçe 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 22 January 2017, at 16:00.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.744","walltime":"0.837","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4860,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":222134,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":7080,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":9,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  675.050      1 -total"," 58.26%  393.316      1 Template:Reflist"," 23.86%  161.066     42 Template:Cite_book"," 21.25%  143.463     12 Template:Fix"," 16.10%  108.708     25 Template:Cite_web"," 15.44%  104.202     10 Template:Delink"," 10.73%   72.402      4 Template:Page_needed","  7.11%   47.982      4 Template:Self-published_source","  5.41%   36.551      4 Template:Ambox","  4.98%   33.607      2 Template:Original_research"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.422","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5799538,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1178","timestamp":"20170124223607","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":76,"wgHostname":"mw1218"});});
