 







Portal:History of science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 History
Ancient Egypt
Ancient Germanic Culture
Ancient Greece
Ancient Japan
Ancient Near East
Ancient Rome
Anglo-Saxon England
Archaeology
Austria-Hungary
 British Empire
Bulgarian Empire
Byzantine Empire
Classical civilisation
Colonialism
Crusades
Dacia
Disasters
German Empire
Heraldry
History of Canada
 History of science
Imperial China
Indian independence movement
Khitan
Latter Day Saint movement
Middle Ages
Mughal Empire
New France
Ottoman Empire
Russian Empire
Sasanian Empire
Seljuk Empire
Soviet Union
 War



edit 
The History of Science Portal









An 18th-century Persian astrolabe


The content of science, as well as the meaning of the very idea of science, has continually evolved since the rise of modern science and before. The history of science is concerned with the paths that led to our present knowledge as well as those that were abandoned (thus overlapping with the history of ideas, history of philosophy and intellectual history). The history of science seeks to explain past beliefs—even those now considered erroneous—in their social, cultural and intellectual contexts. It also forms the foundation of the philosophy of science and the sociology of science, as well as the interdisciplinary field of science, technology, and society, and is closely related to the history of technology.
The study of science and technology includes both processes and bodies of knowledge. Scientific processes are the ways scientists investigate and communicate about the natural world. The scientific body of knowledge includes concepts, principles, facts, laws, and theories about the way the world around us works. Technology includes the technological design process and the body of knowledge related to the study of tools and the effect of technology on society. Science is continuously growing with technology today. Thanks to technology scientists have been able to better prove their theories.
Periodization in the historiography of science is usually oriented around the Scientific Revolution that culminated in the work of Isaac Newton. In this scheme, science (or more precisely, natural philosophy) before Copernicus was pre-modern science. European and Islamic science from antiquity to the 16th century was primarily derived from the work of Aristotle and other Greek philosophers (though historians now recognize the significant influence of Chinese knowledge as well); it included alchemy, astrology, and other subjects no longer considered as scientific, as well as the precursors of the modern sciences. Science (still in the form of natural philosophy) from roughly the late 16th century until the early- to mid-19th century was early-modern science; the birth of the experimental method in the 17th and 18th centuries is often considered a central event in the history of science. The 19th century saw the professionalization and secularization of science and the creation of independent scientific disciplines; modern science can denote science since this period (in distinction to early-modern), all science since Newton (in distinction to pre-modern), or simply science as practiced now.
More about History of Science...





edit 
Selected article






In 1977 the completion of the Shiva laser at LLNL ushered in a new field of big science: laser fusion.


Big Science is a term used by scientists and historians of science to describe a series of changes in science which occurred in industrial nations during and after World War II.
While World War I was the first war in which science played a major role in warfare and armaments, the increase in military funding of science following the second World War was on a scale wholly unprecedented. World War II has often been called "the physicists' war" for the role that those scientists played in the development of new weapons and tools, notably the proximity fuze, radar, and the atomic bomb. The bulk of these last two activities took place in a new form of research facility: the government-sponsored laboratory, employing thousands of technicians and scientists, managed by universities (in this case, the University of California and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology).
In the shadow of the first atomic weapons, the importance of a strong scientific research establishment was apparent to any country wishing to have a role in international politics. After the success of the Manhattan Project, a scientific and technological endeavor on an unprecedented scale, governments became the chief patron of science, and the character of the scientific establishment underwent several key changes. This was especially marked in the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War, but also to a lesser extent in many other countries.




...Archive


Read more...






edit 
Selected picture





The Flammarion woodcut is an enigmatic woodcut by an unknown artist. It is referred to as the "Flammarion woodcut" because its first documented appearance is in page 163 of Camille Flammarion's L'atmosphère: météorologie populaire ("The Atmosphere: Popular Meteorology," Paris, 1888).
The woodcut depicts a man, dressed as a medieval pilgrim and carrying a pilgrim's staff, peering through the sky as if it were a curtain to look at the inner workings of the universe. One of the elements of the cosmic machinery bears a strong resemblance to traditional pictorial representations of the "wheel in the middle of a wheel" described in the visions of the prophet Ezekiel (see Merkabah). The caption in Flammarion's book translates as "A missionary of the Middle Ages tells that he had found the point where the sky and the Earth touched..." The image accompanies a text which reads, in part, "What, then, is this blue sky, which certainly does exist, and which veils from us the stars during the day?" The woodcut is often described as being medieval due to its visual style, its fanciful vision of the world, and to what appears to be a depiction of a flat Earth.
Archive...



edit 
Selected inventor





Vannevar Bush (March 11, 1890 – June 30, 1974) was an American engineer and science administrator, known for his work on analog computing, his political role in the development of the atomic bomb, and the idea of the memex—seen as a pioneering concept for the World Wide Web. A leading figure in the development of the military-industrial complex and the military funding of science in the United States, Bush was a prominent policymaker and public intellectual ("the patron saint of American science") during World War II and the ensuing Cold War. Through his public career, Bush was a proponent of democratic technocracy and of the centrality of technological innovation and entrepreneurship for both economic and geopolitical security.




...Archive


Read more...







edit 
Topics




Overview
In early cultures | In classical antiquity |In the Middle Ages | In the Renaissance | The Scientific Revolution | Scientific method | Modern science


Historiography
Historians | Sociology of Scientific Knowledge (SSK) | Science Studies | Science and Technology Studies


Physics
Natural philosophy | Astronomy | Aristotelian physics | Optics | Electricity | Classical mechanics | Timeline of thermodynamics | Special relativity | General relativity | Quantum field theory | Materials science


Biology
Natural history | Ecology | Biochemistry | Genetics | Molecular biology | Evolutionary biology | Model organisms | Great chain of being


Chemistry
Alchemy | Atomism | Chemical revolution | Atomic theory | Electrochemistry | Periodic system


Earth science
Geology | Geography | Paleontology | Age of the Earth | Volcanology


Technology
Ancient Rome | Middle Ages | Industrial Revolution | Second Industrial Revolution | Agricultural science | Computer science | Biotechnology


Medicine
Prehistoric medicine | Ancient Egypt | Ancient Greece | India | China | Middle Ages | Islam | Anatomy | Germ theory | Wound care


Scientific culture
Royal Society | Académie des Sciences | Nobel Prize | National Academy of Sciences | Scientific publication | Science wars | Women in science | Romanticism in science


Funding of science
Patronage | Science policy | Military funding of science | Research and development


Science and religion
Relationship between religion and science | Conflict thesis | Merton thesis | Galileo affair | Scopes Trial | Islamic science | Creation–evolution controversy


Big Science
Manhattan Project | Soviet nuclear program | Military–industrial complex | Human Genome Project | Space program | High-energy physics


Related fields
Philosophy of Science | History of Mathematics | History of Ideas | History of Medicine | History of Technology








edit 
Did you know


...that the travel narrative The Malay Archipelago, by biologist Alfred Russel Wallace, was used by the novelist Joseph Conrad as a source for his novel Lord Jim?
...that the seventeenth century philosophers René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, and Gottfried Leibniz, along with their Empiricist contemporary Thomas Hobbes all formulated definitions of conatus, an innate inclination of a thing to continue to exist and enhance itself?
...that the history of biochemistry spans approximately 400 years, but the word "biochemistry" in the modern sense was first proposed only in 1903, by German chemist Carl Neuberg?
...that the Great Comet of 1577 was viewed by people all over Europe, including famous Danish astronomer Tycho Brahe and the six year old Johannes Kepler?
...that the Society for Social Studies of Science (often abbreviated as 4S) is, as its website claims, "the oldest and largest scholarly association devoted to understanding science and technology"?

...Archive




edit 
Selected anniversaries



February 6:

1617 - Death of Prospero Alpini, Italian scientist (b. 1553)


1695 - Birth of Nicolaus II Bernoulli, Swiss mathematician (d. 1726)


1744 - Birth of Pierre-Joseph Desault, French anatomist and surgeon (d. 1795)


1833 - Death of Pierre André Latreille, French entomologist (b. 1762)


1853 - Birth of Ignacij Klemenčič, Slovenian physicist (d. 1901)


1916 - Birth of John Crank, British mathematician (d. 2006)


1927 - Birth of Gerard K. O'Neill, American physicist (d. 1992)


1950 - Death of Georges Imbert, Alsatian chemist (b. 1884)


1959 - Jack Kilby of Texas Instruments filed the first patent for an integrated circuit


1991 - Death of Salvador Luria, Italian biologist, Nobel laureate (b. 1912)


1998 - Death of Haroun Tazieff, French vulcanologist and geologist (b. 1914)


2002 - Death of Max Perutz, Austrian molecular biologist, Nobel laureate (b. 1914)

More anniversaries...



edit 
Related portals








History
Medicine






Philosophy
Science






Philosophy of science
Technology






edit 
Categories





▼ History of science


► History of science by period



► History of science by discipline



► Historiography of science



► Academic genealogies



► History of science awards



► Early scientific cosmologies



► History of forensic science



► Hoaxes in science



► History of science museums



► Science museums



► Natural history



► Natural philosophy



► Obsolete scientific theories



► Obsolete units of measurement



► History of science organizations



► Historical research institutes



► Science timelines



► Scientific expeditions



► Scientific instrument makers



► Historical scientific instruments



► History of scientific method



► Scientific revolution



► History of science stubs












edit 
Things you can do


Help out by participating in the History of Science Wikiproject (which also coordinates the histories of medicine, technology and philosophy of science) or join the discussion.








→ History of Science collaboration of the month: Wikipedia:WikiProject History of Science/Collaboration of the Month/current
→ Science collaboration of the month:





The current science collaboration of the month article is: Chemistry
Please help improve this article to featured article quality standards.

Last month's collaboration was Science in the Middle Ages.
To propose future collaborations, please contribute here!




v
t
e







→ Here are some Open Tasks :

Article requests: History of earth science - Book of Nature - History of virology - History of environmental science - History of public health - History of endocrinology - History of the microscope - PaJaMo experiment - Technological sublime
Missing Scientist Articles: Normal Louis Allinger - Stanley H. Autler - John William Baker - Samuel Jackson Barnett - Manson Benedicks - Frank Leverett - Willy Rozenbaum - Ellie Wollman - Emory Ellis
Copyedit: Gottfried Leibniz - Nuclear arms race - Scientific Revolution - Galileo affair - Genealogy of theoretical physicists - John Harrison - Islamic science - Galileo's Daughter
History of science stubs: Prout's hypothesis - Neptunism - Chemical Revolution - Birth cries of atoms - Faraday Society - Plum pudding model - Nature study - Accademia del Cimento
Scientist stubs: Jean-Baptiste Biot - Robert S. Dietz - Hippolyte Fizeau - G. Evelyn Hutchinson - Auguste Laurent - Ida Noddack - Erasmus Reinhold - Franz Tengnagel - Sergei Winogradsky
Science book stubs: The Chemical History of a Candle - Genetics and the Origin of Species - Geological Evidences of the Antiquity of Man - La Géométrie - Historia Plantarum (Ray) - History of Animals - Method of Fluxions - Mysterium Cosmographicum - The Physiologus - Rudolphine Tables - The World (Descartes)
More pages needing attention








The History of Science Collaboration is On the Origin of Species.






edit 
Wikimedia




Science and technology on Wikinews    
Scientists on Wikiquote    
History of science on Wikibooks    
History of science on Wikisource    
History of science on Wikicommons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Images























Science
 History of science    Philosophy of science    Systems science    Mathematics    Biology    Chemistry    Physics    Earth sciences    Technology   


What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:History_of_science&oldid=759959831"					
Categories: Science portalsHistory portalsHistory of scienceHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةFrançaisNederlandsPortuguêsසිංහල 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 14 January 2017, at 03:12.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.212","walltime":"0.342","ppvisitednodes":{"value":618,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":53433,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2655,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":7,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  185.226      1 -total"," 23.82%   44.116      1 Portal:History_of_science/Opentask"," 18.90%   35.002      2 Template:Random_portal_component"," 18.41%   34.104      1 Template:Collab-science"," 16.80%   31.122      1 Template:Mbox"," 11.30%   20.938      9 Portal:History_of_science/box-header","  7.24%   13.408      1 Template:Featured_portal","  5.44%   10.080      1 Template:Top_icon","  4.89%    9.050      1 Template:Science_portalbar","  4.31%    7.982      1 Template:History_browsebar"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.031","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1143111,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1178","timestamp":"20170206164143","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":440,"wgHostname":"mw1178"});});
