 







Portal:Comedy

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Comedy Portal



Parody



Comedy is an act of being funny it has a popular meaning (stand-up, along with any discourse generally intended to amuse), which differs from its academic definition, namely the comic theatre, whose Western origins are found in Ancient Greece. The theatrical genre can be simply described as a dramatic performance pitting two societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. Comedy contains variations on the elements of surprise, incongruity, conflict, repetitiveness, and the effect of opposite expectations, and there are many recognized genres.
Satire and political satire use ironic comedy to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of humor. Parody borrows the form of some popular genre, artwork, or text but uses certain ironic changes to critique that form from within (though not necessarily in a condemning way). Screwball comedy derives its humor largely from bizarre, surprising (and improbable) situations or characters. Black comedy is defined by dark humor that makes light of so-called dark or evil elements in human nature. Similarly scatological humor, sexual humor, and race humor create comedy by violating social conventions or taboos in comedic ways. A comedy of manners typically takes as its subject a particular part of society (usually upper class society) and uses humor to parody or satirize the behavior and mannerisms of its members. Romantic comedy is a popular genre (also known as rom com or romcom) that depicts burgeoning romance in humorous terms and focuses on the foibles of those falling in love.


More about comedy...







Show new selections below (purge)



edit  
Selected article



"Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" is the ninth episode of the first season of the animated comedy television series South Park. The show's first Christmas special, it portrays the Jewish character Kyle feeling excluded from the town's Christmas celebrations and being comforted by Mr. Hankey, who can talk and sing. As Mr. Hankey does not come alive in the presence of other characters, they begin to think that Kyle is delusional. In another plot strand, the townspeople remove all symbols of Christmas from South Park to render the celebrations politically correct and inoffensive. When all the children start believing in him, Mr. Hankey finally reveals himself to everyone and scolds them for losing sight of the good things of Christmas and focusing on the bad. The townspeople apologize to Kyle, then sing Christmas songs and watch Mr. Hankey fly away with Santa Claus. Heavily influenced by the Peanuts Christmas special A Charlie Brown Christmas, "Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo" was the first South Park musical episode and the only episode in season one in which Kenny does not die. It is a satire of political correctness and religious sensitivity and has been described as one of the classic South Park episodes.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Olayus Magnus etching from 1555



The skomorokhs (Sing. скоморох in Russian, скоморохъ in Old East Slavic, скоморaхъ in Church Slavonic) were medieval East Slavic harlequins, i.e., actors, who could also sing, dance, play musical instruments, and compose most of the scores for their oral/musical and dramatic performances. The etymology of the word is not totally clear. There are hypotheses that the word is derived from the Greek σκώμμαρχος (cf. σκῶμμα, "joke"); from the Italian scaramuccia ("joker", cf. English scaramouch); from the Arabic masẋara; and many others.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...




...that Richard Hanley's book South Park and Philosophy: Bigger, Longer, and More Penetrating analyzes issues of applied ethics as presented in South Park?



... that a scene from "Rosemary's Baby", an episode of 30 Rock featuring Alec Baldwin and Tracy Morgan, was described by one critic as "one of the funniest scenes ... on TV this season"?



... that the opening scene of the first episode of BBC Three sitcom Mongrels features cats eating the corpse of their dead owner?




...Archive/Nominations



More...












edit  
Selected biography



Dan Leno (1860–1904) was a leading English music hall comedian and musical theatre actor during the late Victorian era. He was perhaps best known, aside from his music hall act, for his dame roles in the annual pantomimes that were popular at London's Theatre Royal, Drury Lane from 1888 to 1904. As a youth, he was famous for his clog dancing, and in his teen years, he became the star of his family's act. As a solo artist, he became increasingly popular during the late 1880s and 1890s, when he was one of the highest-paid comedians in the world. He developed a music hall act of talking about life's mundane subjects, mixed with comic songs and surreal observations, and created a host of mostly working-class characters to illustrate his stories. In 1901, still at the peak of his career, he performed his "Huntsman" sketch for Edward VII at Sandringham. The monarch was so impressed that Leno became publicly known as "the king's jester". Leno continued to appear in musical comedies and his own music hall routines until 1902, although he suffered increasingly from alcoholism. This, together with his long association with dame and low comedy roles, prevented him from being taken seriously as a dramatic actor. He suffered a mental breakdown in early 1903 and was committed to a mental asylum, but was discharged later that year. After one more show, his health declined, and he died aged 43.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Comedy


► Comedy by country



► Comedy by medium



► Comedy genres



► Comedy by franchise



► Ancient Roman comic dramatists



► April Fools' Day



► Comedy characters



► Clowning



► Comedians



► Commedia dell'arte



► Comedy events



► Islamic comedy and humor



► Jewish comedy and humor



► LGBT comedy and humour



► Pantomime



► Comedy record labels



► Running gags



► Comic science fiction



► Sex comedy



► Student comedy



► Comedy tours



► Comedy venues



► Comedy writers



► Comedy stubs












edit  
WikiProjects



WikiProject Culture

WikiProject Comedy
WikiProject Dad's Army • WikiProject Fawlty Towers • WikiProject Futurama • WikiProject Gilbert and Sullivan • WikiProject Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy • WikiProject Monty Python • WikiProject The Office (US) • WikiProject Red Dwarf • WikiProject Seinfeld • WikiProject The Simpsons • WikiProject South Park

What are WikiProjects?








edit  
Selected quote







Comedy is simply a funny way of being serious.
— Peter Ustinov







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Abyssinia, Henry
 American Beauty (1999 film)
 Animaniacs
 Bale Out
 Borat
 But I'm a Cheerleader
 Cartman Gets an Anal Probe
 Nancy Cartwright
 Charlie Chaplin
 The Chaser APEC pranks
 Stephen Colbert at the 2006 White House Correspondents' Association Dinner
 Cold Feet
 The Country Wife
 Damien (South Park)
 Ed, Edd n Eddy
 Flywheel, Shyster, and Flywheel
 George Formby
 George Formby Sr
 Fuck (film)
 Goodbyeee
 Grim Fandango
 H.M.S. Pinafore
 Phil Hartman
 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (radio series)
 Homer's Phobia
 Hoodwinked!
 Kenneth Horne
 Horrible Histories (2009 TV series)
 Hattie Jacques
 Joking Apart
 Kampung Boy (TV series)
 Lage Raho Munna Bhai
 Last Gasp (Inside No. 9)
 Last of the Summer Wine
 John Le Mesurier
 Dan Leno
 Lisa the Vegetarian
 Little Miss Sunshine
 Love, Inc. (TV series)
 Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo
 North by North Quahog
 Parks and Recreation (season 1)
 Pilot (Parks and Recreation)
 Press Gang
 A Quiet Night In
 R U Professional
 Road to the Multiverse
 Rob-B-Hood
 George Robey
 Sardines (Inside No. 9)
 School Rumble
 Peter Sellers
 Bart Simpson
 Homer Simpson
 The Simpsons Movie
 The Simpsons
 Red Skelton
 South Park (season 13)
 Stark Raving Dad
 Starvin' Marvin (South Park)
 A Streetcar Named Marge
 Tank Girl (film)
 Temperatures Rising
 Terry-Thomas
 Trapped in the Closet (South Park)
 Tropic Thunder
 Truthiness
 A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant
 Volcano (South Park)
 P. G. Wodehouse
 You Only Move Twice


Featured lists


 30 Rock (season 1)
 30 Rock (season 2)
 30 Rock (season 3)
 30 Rock (season 4)
 Bookseller/Diagram Prize for Oddest Title of the Year
 Ian Carmichael on stage, screen and radio
 Carry On series on screen and stage
 Charlie Chaplin filmography
 Desperate Housewives (season 1)
 List of Family Guy cast members
 Family Guy (season 1)
 Family Guy (season 5)
 Family Guy (season 8)
 George Formby on screen, stage, record and radio
 Glee (season 1)
 List of accolades received by Gosford Park
 Green Wing (series 1)
 Hattie Jacques on stage, radio, screen and record
 How I Met Your Mother (season 1)
 John Le Mesurier on stage, radio, screen and record
 List of awards and nominations received by 30 Rock
 List of The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror episodes
 List of Yotsuba&! chapters
 List of Arrested Development episodes
 List of Family Guy episodes
 List of Joking Apart episodes
 List of QI episodes
 List of The Office (U.S. TV series) episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes (seasons 1–20)
 List of awards and nominations received by Arrested Development
 List of awards and nominations received by Louie
 List of awards and nominations received by Parks and Recreation
 List of awards and nominations received by Psych
 The Office (U.S. season 1)
 The Office (U.S. season 2)
 The Office (U.S. season 3)
 The Office (U.S. season 4)
 List of Peep Show episodes
 List of awards and nominations received by Penn & Teller: Bullshit!
 Peter Sellers on stage, radio, screen and record
 Seinfeld (season 2)
 The Simpsons shorts
 The Simpsons (season 1)
 The Simpsons (season 2)
 The Simpsons (season 3)
 The Simpsons (season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 5)
 The Simpsons (season 6)
 The Simpsons (season 7)
 The Simpsons (season 8)
 The Simpsons (season 9)
 Songs, sketches and monologues of Dan Leno
 Tenacious D discography
 Terry-Thomas on screen, radio, stage and record
 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance


Good topics


 South Park (season 1)
 South Park (season 13)
 The Office (U.S. season 1)
 The Office (U.S. season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 1)
 The Simpsons (season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 9)


Featured pictures







File:Webcomic xkcd - Wikipedian protester.png











edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Comedy}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.
Copyedit: But I'm a Cheerleader, Victoria Wood As Seen On TV, Green Wing, Green Wing Special, The Simpsons Movie, I Not Stupid Too, Mr. Stain, Kevin and Kell, Red Dwarf, List of Peep Show episodes, Treehouse of Horror V, Episode 210, Tenacious D, David Brenner
Expand: Goon Show Preservation Society, Grow Your Own (film), Guy Jenkin, Fintan Ryan
Peer Review: Health (film)
Rate the Unassessed Comedy articles and Unknown-importance Comedy articles in the Comedy WikiProject.
Requested articles: Comedybox, Fenton Baily, Tarquin D'Sartio, More...
Stubs: Comedian stubs, Comedy television series stubs, Comedy television character stubs, Comedy album stubs, Comedy film stubs, More...







edit  
Main topics


Comedy

Terms: Black comedy • Comedian • Comedy club • Comedy of manners • Convention (norm) • Irony • Komos • Parody • Political satire • Race humor • Restoration comedy • Satire • Screwball comedy • Surreal humour • Taboo • Toilet humor
Comedy genres: Bouffon • Comedy film • Anarchic comedy film • Gross-out film • Parody film • Romantic comedy film • Screwball comedy film • Slapstick film • Comic novel • Dramedy • Improvisational comedy • Musical comedy • Stand-up comedy • Alternative comedy • Impressionist (entertainment) • One-liner joke • Comedy genres • Sketch comedy • Television comedy • Radio comedy • Situation comedy • Tragicomedy
History of theatre: Ancient Greek comedy • Ancient Roman comedy • Burlesque • Citizen comedy • Clown • Comedy of humours • Comedy of manners • Comedy of menace • Comédie larmoyante • Commedia dell'arte • Face • Jester • Restoration comedy • Shakespearean comedy • Dadaist/Surrealist • Theatre of the absurd
Comedy events and awards: British Comedy Awards • Canadian Comedy Awards • Cat Laughs Comedy Festival • Edinburgh Festival Fringe • Just for laughs • Halloween Howls Comedy Festival • Melbourne International Comedy Festival • New York Underground Comedy Festival
Lists: List of comedians • List of British comedians • List of Canadian comedians • List of Finnish comedians • List of German language comedians • List of Italian comedians • List of Mexican comedians • List of Puerto Rican comedians • List of Indian comedians • List of British TV shows remade for the American market • List of comedies • List of New York Improv comedians






edit  
Subportals





Family Guy



Futurama



Hitchhiker's



M*A*S*H



Muppets



The Simpsons



South Park









edit  
Related portals












Arts
Books
Comics
Film
Literature
Music










Musical Theatre
Poetry
Radio
Television
Theatre
Writing








edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Comedy on Wikinews
News

Comedy on Wikiquote
Quotes

Comedy on Commons
Images

Comedy on Wikisource
Texts

Comedy on Wikibooks
Books









What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Comedy&oldid=713226493"					
Categories: ComedyComedy portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةDeutschFrançaisעברית日本語Русский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 2 April 2016, at 19:13.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.380","walltime":"0.548","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2970,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":167231,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":60071,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  348.855      1 -total"," 36.54%  127.471      1 Portal:Comedy/Featured_content"," 33.78%  117.859      3 Template:Columns-list"," 29.62%  103.317    134 Template:Icon"," 20.43%   71.256      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 10.71%   37.356      1 Template:Featured_portal","  9.48%   33.057      1 Template:Top_icon","  9.47%   33.029      1 Portal:Comedy/Subportals","  8.76%   30.549      1 Template:Related_portals2","  7.62%   26.594      1 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.122","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2452077,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1210","timestamp":"20170210013153","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1255"});});
