 







Portal:Constructed languages

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
Constructed languages portal


Welcome to the Wikiportal about Constructed languages!

A planned or constructed language—known colloquially or informally as a conlang—is a language whose phonology, grammar, and/or vocabulary have been consciously devised by an individual or group, instead of having evolved naturally. There are many possible reasons to create a constructed language: to ease human communication (see international auxiliary language and code); to bring fiction or an associated constructed world to life; linguistic experimentation; artistic creation; and language games.
The expression planned language is sometimes used to mean international auxiliary languages and other languages intended for actual use in human communication. Some prefer it to the more common terms "constructed", as that term may have pejorative connotations in some languages. Outside the Esperanto community, the term language planning means the prescriptions given to a natural language to standardize it; in this regard, even "natural languages" may be artificial in some respects. In the case of prescriptive grammars, where wholly artificial rules exist, the line is difficult to draw. The term "glossopoeia," coined by J. R. R. Tolkien, is also used to mean language construction, particularly construction of artistic languages.
More about Constructed languages...






edit  
Language of the month



Volapük (/ˈvɒləpʊk/ in English; [volaˈpyk] in Volapük) is a constructed language, created in 1879–1880 by Johann Martin Schleyer, a Roman Catholic priest in Baden, Germany. Schleyer felt that God had told him in a dream to create an international language. Volapük conventions took place in 1884 (Friedrichshafen), 1887 (Munich) and 1889 (Paris). The first two conventions used German, and the last conference used only Volapük. In 1889, there were an estimated 283 clubs, 25 periodicals in or about Volapük, and 316 textbooks in 25 languages; at that time the language claimed nearly a million adherents. Volapük was largely displaced in the late 19th and early 20th centuries by Esperanto.
Schleyer first published a sketch of Volapük in May 1879 in Sionsharfe, a Catholic poetry magazine of which he was editor. This was followed in 1880 by a full-length book in German. Schleyer himself did not write books on Volapük in other languages, but other authors soon did.
André Cherpillod writes of the third Volapük convention: "In August 1889 the third convention was held in Paris. About two hundred people from many countries attended. And, unlike in the first two conventions, people spoke only Volapük. For the first time in the history of mankind, sixteen years before the Boulogne convention, an international convention spoke an international language." Find out more...
Archive | Nominate a language...




edit  
Did you know...


...that the Klingon language, used in the Star Trek films and television series is a fully formed language developed by linguist Marc Okrand?
...that William Shatner (also of Star Trek fame) once starred in a fully Esperanto-language film, Incubus?
...that language games like Pig Latin are also considered constructed languages, albeit not the best examples of the art?
Archive | Suggest a DYK item...




edit  
Current events


New conlang wiki is growing and adding linguistic information for conlangers




edit  
Corresponding categories





▼ Constructed languages


► Artificial scripts



► Artistic languages



► Constructed languages resources



► Controlled natural languages



► Engineered languages



► Formal languages



► Gibberish language



► Grammars of constructed languages



► International auxiliary languages



► Klingon language



► Language games



► Constructed language organizations



► Reconstructed languages



► Simplified languages



► Constructed language speakers



► Volapük



► Zonal constructed languages



► Constructed language stubs









edit  
Projects





You are invited to participate in WikiProject Constructed languages, a WikiProject dedicated to developing and improving articles about constructed languages.






edit  
Things you can do









Here are some Constructed language tasks:
Join: Constructed Languages WikiProject & add {{Wikipedia:WikiProject Constructed languages/Userbox}}
Follow: Recent changes in related articles
Tag: {{WP conlangs}}, {{Constructed languages}}, and {{Infobox language}} (see WP:CL Templates) Evaluate: Everything in Category:Unassessed constructed language articles
Report: Edit wars and deletions
Expand: everything in category:Constructed language stubs
Requests:
Several articles about constructed languages have been deleted for lack of verifiability, independent resources or notability. If you think one of the following subjects meets Wikipedia's criteria for inclusion, don't hesitate dig it up from the graveyard, but don't forget to add proper references:
Abakwi, Ancient Language, Arovën, Baza, Bluddian, Dremlang, Eaiea, Eloi, Ekspreso, Esperando, Fasile, Glide, Herman Miller, Kotava (rd), Latejami, Mezhdunarodny Nauchny Yazyk, Mirad, Modern Indo-European, Mondlango, Musbrek, Noxilo, Or'zet, Romanica (rd), Romanova (rd), Signuno, Sperethiel, Szkev, Thosk, Tokcir, Troscann, Unas, UNI, Universalspråket, Vorlin.




edit  
Web resources



Conlang Profiles at Langmaker.com
Some Internet resources relating to constructed languages, by Richard Kennaway
UniLang.org
Conlang wiki






edit  
Articles





Constructed language types

A priori language, Artificial script, Artistic language, Constructed language, Controlled language, Engineered language, Experimental language, International auxiliary language, Language game, Logical language, Musical language, Oligosynthetic language, Philosophical language, Pivot language, Relexification, Universal language, Whistled language, Worldlang, Zonal constructed language
General language types
Agglutinative language, Analytic language, Inflectional language, Fusional language, Isolating language, Polysynthetic language, Synthetic language
See also: List of constructed languages, List of constructed scripts

International auxiliary languages

Languages: Adjuvilo, Afrihili, Babm, Basic English, Bolak (Blue Language), Communicationssprache, Dutton Speedwords, Esperanto, Esperanto II, Eurolengo, Europanto, Folkspraak, Globish, Glosa, Idiom Neutral, Ido, Intal, Interglossa, Interlingua, Interslavic, Langue nouvelle, Latino sine flexione, Lingua Franca Nova, Lingua sistemfrater, Lingwa de planeta, Lojban, Mondial, Mundolinco, Nal Bino, Neo, Novial, Occidental, Pasilingua, Poliespo, Romániço, Romanid, Sambahsa, Slovianski, Slovio, Solresol, Sona, Spokil, Toki Pona, Tutonish, Universal, Universalglot, Uropi, Volapük
Creators: Arturo Alfandari, Louis de Beaufront, Léon Bollack, Claudius Colas, Louis Couturat, René Descartes, Reginald J. G. Dutton, Alexander Gode, Ján Herkeľ, Lancelot Hogben, Otto Jespersen, Arie de Jong, Juraj Križanić, Léopold Leau, Matija Majar, Diego Marani, Elias Molee, Charles Kay Ogden, Giuseppe Peano, Jean Pirro, Waldemar Rosenberger, Joseph Schipfer, Johann Martin Schleyer, Kenneth Searight, Jan van Steenbergen, Paul Steiner, Petro Stojan, François Sudre, Edgar de Wahl, Ludwik Lejzer Zamenhof
See also: Arcaicam Esperantom, Esperantido, Esperanto and Ido compared, Esperanto and Interlingua compared, Pan-Germanic language, Pan-Slavic language, Proto-Esperanto, Reformed Esperanto

Logical, philosophical, and engineered languages

Languages: An Essay towards a Real Character and a Philosophical Language, aUI, Blissymbol, Ceqli, Characteristica universalis, CycL, Gibson Code, Ilaksh, Ithkuil, Kalaba-X, Láadan, Lincos, Loglan, Logopandecteision, Lojban, Loom, Ro
Creators: James Cooke Brown, George Dalgarno, Hans Freudenthal, Gottfried Leibniz, Francis Lodwick, Kenneth Lee Pike, John Wilkins

Artistic and fictional languages

Languages: Adûnaic, Aklo, Al Bhed, Alltongue, Asa'pili, Ascian, Atlantean, Aulëan, Babel-17, Balaibalan, Baronh, Barsoomian, Black Speech, Brithenig, Chakobsa, Chorukor, Cirquish, Darkovan, D'ni, Doriathrin, Dothraki, Drac, Dritok, Enchanta, Enochian, Galach, Gargish, Gnommish, Goa'uld, Huttese, Interlac, Iotic, Kēlen, Khuzdul, Klingon, Klingonaase, Koalang, Ku, The Languages of Pao, Lapine, The Lexicon of Comicana, Linguacode, Loxian, Mandalorian, Mangani, Marain, Mänti, Mezangelle, Moss, Nadsat, Na'vi, Newspeak, Old Tongue, Pravic, Ptydepe, Quenya, Rihannsu, Shyriiwook, Simlish, Sindarin, Speedtalk, Spocanian, Starckdeutsch, Stark, Starsza Mowa, Talossan, Telerin, Teonaht, The Speech, Tho Fan, Transpiranto, Tsolyáni, Utopian, Vendergood, Verdurian, Wenedyk, Zaum
Scripts: Aurebesh, Cirth, Tengwar
Creators: Richard Adams, Anthony Burgess, Sally Caves, Samuel R. Delany, Diane Duane, Suzette Haden Elgin, Paul Frommer, Václav Havel, Frank Herbert, Hergé, Ursula K. Le Guin, Barry B. Longyear, Morioka Hiroyuki, Marc Okrand, George Orwell, David J. Peterson, Mark Rosenfelder, David Salo, Jan van Steenbergen, Daniel Tammet, J. R. R. Tolkien, Christian Vander, Xul Solar, Marion Zimmer Bradley
See also: Alien language, Codex Seraphinianus, Elvish languages, False writing system, Languages in Star Wars, Languages constructed by J. R. R. Tolkien (Elvish languages (Middle-earth)), North Slavic languages

Constructed languages for special uses
Languages: Boontling, Brajabuli, Damin, Eskayan, Gestuno, High Icelandic, Iazychie, Kesen dialect, Lingua Ignota, Medefaidrin, Nuwaubic, Polari, Tadoma, Timerio, Yerkish
See also: Voynich manuscript

Constructed writing systems for natural languages

Writing systems: Cherokee syllabary, Cree syllabics, Deseret alphabet, Hangul, Landsmål, Nynorsk, Shavian alphabet
Creators: Ivar Aasen, James Evans, William Fulco, Ronald Kingsley Read, Heinrich Schmid, Sequoyah

Organizations and regulating bodies
Akademio de Esperanto, Centre de documentation et d'étude sur la langue internationale, Department of Planned Languages and Esperanto Museum, International Auxiliary Language Association, International Volapük Academy, Klingon Language Institute, Language Creation Society, Logical Language Group, Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido

Miscellaneous
A Secret Vice, Conlanger, Cosmoglottics, Esperantology, Ill Bethisad, Interlinguistics, ISO, SIL, and BCP language codes for constructed languages, Langmaker, Language planning, Language reform, Zompist.com







edit  
Wikipedia in constructed languages



 Wikipedia in Esperanto (237,226 articles)
 Wikipedia in Volapük (120,476 articles)
 Wikipedia in Ido (26,903 articles)
 Wikipedia in Interlingua (19,617 articles)
 Wikipedia in Interlingue (Occidental) (3,583 articles)
 Wikipedia in Novial (1,644 articles)
 Wikipedia in Lojban (1,196 articles)







edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Constructed languages on Wikinews
News

Constructed languages on Wikiquote
Quotes

Constructed languages on Wikibooks
Manuals & Texts

Constructed languages on Wikisource
Texts

Constructed languages on Wikicommons
Images









What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Constructed_languages&oldid=723238744"					
Categories: Culture portalsConstructed languagesHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةDeutschItalianoРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 1 June 2016, at 21:29.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.244","walltime":"0.320","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2481,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":54175,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2764,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  194.539      1 -total"," 39.22%   76.306      1 Portal:Constructed_languages/Other"," 37.70%   73.344      7 Template:InterWikiSmall"," 36.37%   70.760      7 Template:NUMBEROF"," 35.17%   68.428      7 Template:NUMBEROF/data"," 16.12%   31.362      1 Portal:Constructed_languages/Language_of_the_month/February_2017"," 16.10%   31.325      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 14.36%   27.945      1 Template:Top_icon"," 12.98%   25.243      1 Template:IPAc-en"," 10.32%   20.079      1 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.018","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":876204,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1194","timestamp":"20170213090345","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":63,"wgHostname":"mw1269"});});
