 







Portal:English football

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology






edit  
The English Football Portal



Football is of incredible importance to the English public and has an important place within English national life. The sport is almost always referred to simply as football; it is unusual for it to be called soccer and it is only referred to as "association football" in very limited circumstances. Any unqualified reference to football in an English context should be read as a reference to association football rather than to any other member of the football family of sports.

Kicking ball games are described in England since at least 1280. England can boast the earliest ever documented use of the English word "football" (1409) and the earliest reference to football in French (1314). A description of an exclusively kicking ball game from Nottinghamshire in the fifteenth century bears similarity to football. There is good evidence for refereed, team "foteball" games being played in English public schools since at least 1581. The modern global game of football was first codified in 1863 in London by the English Football Association, the oldest football association in the world. The modern passing game is believed to have been innovated in London in the early 1870s. England is home to the oldest association football clubs in the world (dating from at least 1857), the world's oldest competition (the FA Cup founded in 1871) and the first ever football league (1888). For these reasons England is considered the home of the game of football.

Read more...






View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



Everton Football Club is an English football club located in the city of Liverpool. The club competes in the Premier League and have contested more seasons in the top flight of English football than any other. They are one of the top five most successful English clubs in terms of major honours, having won the League Championship nine times, the FA Cup five times and the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup once. Managed by David Moyes since 2001, the first team have made significant progress, with two European qualifications and three top 10 finishes during his six-year tenure.
Everton have a notable rivalry with Liverpool F.C., who were formed after a dispute over the rent at Anfield, Everton's old ground, in 1892; since then Everton have been based at Goodison Park as a result of the split. The club have a large fanbase and regularly attract large crowds, averaging over 36,000 during the 2005–06 season.



...More selections/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Did you know...



...that Mick Mills (pictured) was made captain of the England national football team which started the 1982 World Cup because Kevin Keegan was unable to play through injury?



...that the first ever golden goal was scored in the Cromwell Cup final at Bramall Lane, Sheffield in 1868, giving Sheffield Wednesday a 1-0 victory?


...that Alex Leake was offered a £10 bribe by Manchester City player Billy Meredith to throw the final match of the 1904–1905 season?


...that English football referee Matt Messias once urged a Portsmouth defender not to kick an opposing player during a match against Newcastle United because "the devil was trying to get him sent off"?


...that, before Wayne Rooney made his debut in February 2003, England's youngest ever football player was James F. M. Prinsep, who had held the record for more than 123 years?




...Archive/Nominations



More...










edit  
Selected competition


Key's Park, home of 2004 champions Hednesford Town
The Football Association Challenge Trophy is an English football competition for clubs playing in levels 5-8 of the English football league system (steps 1-4 of the National League System), which currently covers the three divisions of the Football Conference along with the Southern League, Isthmian League, and Northern Premier League. Clubs in lower levels of the National League System play in the FA Vase.
It was created by the Football Association in 1969 for semi-professional teams, to complement the existing FA Amateur Cup. When the latter was abolished in 1974, the leading amateur teams joined the Trophy. The final was traditionally held at the old Wembley Stadium, but was moved to Villa Park during Wembley's redevelopment. The 2005-06 final was held at Upton Park, London.



...More selections



Read more...







edit  
WikiProjects



Direct relation
Football • England • English football task force
WikiProject Football Task Forces and sub-projects


Africa
Argentina
Australia

A-League


England

Arsenal
Liverpool
Manchester United
Non-league
Sheffield United
Sheffield Wednesday


France
Germany

FC Bayern Munich


Hong Kong
India
Iran
Ireland
Italy
Netherlands
Scotland

Celtic F.C.


Spain

Real Madrid


Sweden
USA & Canada

D.C. United
Sounders FC


Season articles
Variants of football
Women's football
College soccer











edit  
Selected picture















Credit: Egghead06



The opening ceremony for the 2006 FA Cup Final between Liverpool and West Ham. This was the 125th time the trophy was contested and the last time the final was held in the Millennium Stadium before returning to Wembley in 2007. The score was 3-3 after extra time and the game was decided by a penalty shootout in which Liverpool won the cup for the seventh time in their history.




...More selections/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
In the news



Brief in-the-news coverage of English football is also available at Sports current events.

February 5: Frank Lampard announces retirement from football
December 15: UEFA Champions League 2016-2017: Draw for Last 16 held at Nyon
November 25: Gerrard announces retirement from professional football
November 21: Bellerín extends Arsenal contract
October 14: Chelsea announces Nike sponsorship

Sports current events | Wikinews Football






edit  
Current season


2016–17 in English football
Leagues

2016–17 Premier League
2016–17 English Football League
2016–17 EFL Championship
2016–17 Football League One
2016–17 Football League Two
2016–17 National League

Cups

2016–17 FA Cup
FA Community Shield
2016–17 FA Trophy
2016–17 EFL Cup
2016–17 EFL Trophy
2016–17 FA Youth Cup







edit  
Categories




▼ Football in England


► English football chairperson history templates



► Football in England by county



► Association football in England lists



► Football competitions in England



► England football derbies



► England national football teams



► English football club matches



► English football clubs in European football



► Futsal in England



► History of football in England



► English football logos



► Association football matches in England



► Non-League football



► English football organisations



► Football people in England



► Football refereeing in England



► Seasons in English football



► Football teams in England



► English football on television



► English football trophies and awards



► Football venues in England



► Women's football in England



► Youth football in England



► English football portal














edit  
Featured content



Articles: 1923 FA Cup Final • 1956 FA Cup Final • 2007 UEFA Champions League Final • Arsenal F.C. • Aston Villa F.C. • Steve Bruce • Chelsea F.C. • City of Manchester Stadium • Dover Athletic F.C. • Duncan Edwards • England national football team managers • Everton F.C. • Gillingham F.C. • Thierry Henry • History of Arsenal F.C. (1886–1966) • History of Aston Villa F.C. (1961–present) • History of Bradford City A.F.C. • History of Gillingham F.C. • History of Ipswich Town F.C. • History of Norwich City F.C. • History of Stoke City F.C. • Ipswich Town F.C. • Leek Town F.C. • Luton Town F.C. • William McGregor • Manchester City F.C. • Margate F.C. • North Road (stadium) • Norwich City F.C. • Old Trafford • Portman Road • Premier League • Priestfield Stadium • Bobby Robson • Sheffield Wednesday F.C. • Gilberto Silva • Stocksbridge Park Steels F.C. • Bert Trautmann • Valley Parade • John Wark • York City F.C.
Lists: List of Arsenal F.C. players • List of Aston Villa F.C. managers • List of Aston Villa F.C. players • List of Aston Villa F.C. seasons • Aston Villa F.C. statistics and records • List of Birmingham City F.C. managers • List of Birmingham City F.C. players • List of Birmingham City F.C. seasons • List of Birmingham City F.C. statistics and records • List of Bradford City A.F.C. seasons • List of Bristol Rovers F.C. managers • List of England national football team hat-tricks • List of English Football League managers • English football champions • List of Everton F.C. managers • List of FA Amateur Cup winners • List of FA Cup winners • List of FA Trophy winners • List of former Football League clubs • FWA Footballer of the Year • List of Gillingham F.C. managers • List of Gillingham F.C. players • Gillingham F.C. records • List of Gillingham F.C. seasons • List of Ipswich Town F.C. managers • List of Ipswich Town F.C. players • List of Ipswich Town F.C. Players of the Year • List of Ipswich Town F.C. statistics and records • List of Ipswich Town F.C. seasons • List of Leeds United F.C. seasons • List of Liverpool F.C. managers • List of Liverpool F.C. players • List of Liverpool F.C. seasons • List of Liverpool F.C. statistics and records • List of Luton Town F.C. managers • List of Luton Town F.C. seasons • List of Luton Town F.C. statistics and records • List of Manchester City F.C. managers • List of Manchester City F.C. seasons • List of Manchester United F.C. managers • List of Manchester United F.C. players • List of Manchester United F.C. players (25–99 appearances) • List of Manchester United F.C. players (fewer than 25 appearances) • List of Manchester United F.C. records and statistics • List of Manchester United F.C. seasons • List of Margate F.C. seasons • List of Norwich City F.C. Players of the Year • List of Oxford United F.C. managers • PFA Players' Player of the Year • PFA Young Player of the Year • List of Premier League hat-tricks • Record home attendances of English football clubs • List of Scarborough F.C. seasons • List of Sunderland A.F.C. managers • List of Sunderland A.F.C. players • List of Sunderland A.F.C. seasons • List of Watford F.C. seasons • Watford F.C. Player of the Season • List of West Bromwich Albion F.C. seasons • List of York City F.C. Clubmen of the Year • List of York City F.C. managers • List of York City F.C. players • List of York City F.C. seasons • List of York City F.C. statistics and records
Topics: Aston Villa F.C. • Gillingham F.C. • Ipswich Town F.C. • York City F.C.






edit  
Topics








v
t
e


 Men's football in England






National teams



England
B
C
U-21
U-20
U-19
U-18
U-17
U-16








League competitions





Level 1




Premier League









Levels 2–4




Football League









Levels 5–6




National League









Levels 7–8




Isthmian League
Northern Premier League
Southern League









Levels 9–10




Combined Counties League
East Midlands Counties League (level 10 only)
Eastern Counties League
Essex Senior League (level 9 only)
Hellenic League
Midland League
Northern Counties East League
Northern League
North West Counties League
Southern Counties East League
South West Peninsula League (level 10 only)
Spartan South Midlands League
Southern Combination League
United Counties League
Wessex League
Western League
West Midlands (Regional) League (level 10 only)











Cup competitions




FA cups



FA Cup
FA Community Shield
FA Trophy
FA Vase
FA Inter-League Cup








League cups



EFL Cup
EFL Trophy
Northern Premier League Cup
Isthmian League Cup
Southern League Cup








County cups



List of County Cups











Others



Reserve and youth football
Defunct leagues
Defunct cups








Lists



List of clubs
List of clubs by honours won
Current managers
Stadiums by capacity
Record home attendances











Venues
Competitions
Trophies and awards
History
Records












v
t
e


Women's football in England







The Football Association






National teams



Women's
U23 team
U20 team
U19 team
U17 team
U15 team








League system




Levels 1–2



Women's Super League 1
Women's Super League 2








Levels 3–4



Women's Premier League








Levels 5–6



Eastern
East Midlands
London & South East (level 5 only)
North East
North West
Southern
South West
West Midlands
Greater London (levels 6–9)
South East Counties (levels 6–8)








Levels 7–10



Bedfordshire & Hertfordshire
Birmingham
Cambridgeshire
Cheshire
Cornwall
Cumbria
Derbyshire
Devon
Dorset
Durham
East Riding
Essex
Gloucestershire
Greater Manchester
Hampshire
Lancashire
Leicestershire
Lincolnshire
Liverpool
Midwest Counties
Norfolk
North Riding
Northamptonshire
Northumberland
Nottinghamshire
Sheffield & Hallamshire
Somerset
Staffs
Suffolk
Surrey (level 9)
Sussex (level 8)
Thames Valley Counties
West Riding
Wiltshire











Cup competitions



FA Cup
FA WSL Cup
Premier League Cup
Community Shield
FA People's Cup









List of clubs










edit  
Things to do



WikiNews: Create and submit news stories about English football for Wikipedia's sister project WikiNews.
Expand stubs: Competitions in England • National teams • Organisations
Expand club articles of teams from England.
Expand biographies of English people associated with the game
Create: Most wanted articles • Requested articles
Add: Infoboxes • Images, Requested images of people)
Review: articles currently under review
Assess: Assessment requests • Assess an article
Revert Vandalism on this portal and on English Football articles
Assist in maintaining this Portal







edit  
Related portals





Association football

Rugby union

Australian A League

Sports and games










What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge page cache




 Sports
 American football
 Asian Games
 Association football
 Association football (women's)
 Athletics
 Australian rules
 Badminton
 Baseball
 Basketball
 Boxing
 Canadian football
 Canadian sports
 Chess
 College football
 Commonwealth Games
 Cricket
 Cycling
 Fencing
 Figure skating
 Fishing
 Gaelic games
 Golf
 Gymnastics
 Ice hockey
 Handball
 Horse racing
 Martial arts
 Motorsport
 Olympics
 Paralympics
 Rugby league
 Rugby union
 Sailing
 Snooker
 Swimming
 Tennis
 Water sports
 Wrestling










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:English_football&oldid=649199538"					
Categories: English football portalAssociation football portalsFootball in EnglandHidden categories: Pages with missing filesFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Русский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 07:36.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.220","walltime":"0.415","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2584,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":170532,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":14844,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  242.070      1 -total"," 34.87%   84.413      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 15.63%   37.844      5 Template:Navbox"," 14.46%   34.994      1 Portal:English_football/Did_you_know"," 13.80%   33.404      1 Portal:English_football/Topics"," 13.44%   32.533      5 Template:Random_subpage"," 10.73%   25.984      1 Template:Football_in_England_table_cells","  9.32%   22.568      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.32%   20.137      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.87%   19.049      1 Portal:English_football/Did_you_know/15"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.041","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1563509,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1257","timestamp":"20170213014416","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":488,"wgHostname":"mw1257"});});
