 







Portal:Journalism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The journalism portal



Journalism is the discipline of gathering, writing and reporting news, and broadly it includes the process of editing and presenting the news articles. Journalism applies to various media, but is not limited to newspapers, magazines, radio, and television. While under pressure to be the first to publish its stories, each news media organization adheres to its own standards of accuracy, quality, and style — usually editing and proofreading its reports prior to publication. Many news organizations claim proud traditions of holding government officials and institutions accountable to the public, while media critics have raised questions on the accountability of the press. The word journalism is taken from the French journal which in turn comes from the Latin diurnal or daily. The Acta Diurna, a handwritten bulletin, was put up daily in the Forum, the main public square in ancient Rome, and was the world's first newspaper.

More about journalism...




View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The Philadelphia Inquirer is a daily morning newspaper that serves the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania area. The newspaper was founded by John R. Walker and John Norvell in June 1829 as The Pennsylvania Inquirer and is the third oldest surviving daily newspaper in the United States. Owned by the local group Philadelphia Media Holdings L.L.C., The Inquirer has the tenth largest weekly U.S. newspaper circulation, and has won eighteen Pulitzer Prizes. Throughout The Inquirer's history, the paper has risen and fallen in prominence. The Inquirer first became a major newspaper during the American Civil War when The Inquirer's war coverage was popular on both sides. After the war the paper's circulation dramatically dropped, but was reinvigorated by the end of the 19th century. While founded with support towards the Democratic Party The Inquirer's political affiliation eventually shifted towards the Whig Party and then the Republican Party before officially becoming politically independent in the middle of the 20th century. By the end of the 1960s The Inquirer trailed behind its chief competitor and lacked modern facilities and experienced staff. New owners and editors in the 1970s turned The Inquirer into one of the most prominent newspapers in the country, winning seventeen Pulitzers in fifteen years. The prestige The Inquirer found in the 1980s has mostly disappeared because of cost-cutting and a shift of focus to more local coverage.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Georges Ferdinand Bigot



Georges Ferdinand Bigot (April 7, 1860 - October 10, 1927) was a French cartoonist, illustrator and artist. Although almost unknown in his native country, Bigot is famous in Japan for his satirical cartoons, which depict life in Meiji Japan.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that New York Journal cartoonist and illustrator Nell Brinkley created the "Brinkley Girl" (pictured) an iconic representation of independent working women popular in the early 20th century?
...that Selvarajah Rajivarnam was the fourth journalist to be killed on April 29, during the last three years of the Sri Lankan civil war?
...that Time predicted 1973 to be a "gilt-edged year" for the stock market, just three days before the stock market crash of 1973–4 began, wiping 45% off the value of the Dow Jones Industrial Average?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In the news

Journalism articles from Wikinews


December 26: Plane carrying 92 crashes into Black Sea near Sochi
December 13: Detained journalist Mohamed Tamalt dies in Algeria
December 4: Gunman kills official, two journalists in Imatra, Finland

More...





edit  
Selected biography



Anna Wintour (born November 3, 1949, in London) is the editor-in-chief of American Vogue, a position she has held since 1988. She became interested in fashion as a teenager. Her father, Charles, editor of the Evening Standard, often consulted with her on how to make the newspaper's coverage relevant to the youth of mid-1960s London. After dropping out of school at 16, she began a career in fashion journalism. Her career took her across the Atlantic, with notable stints at New York and Home & Garden. She returned home for a tumultuous year to turn around British Vogue, and later assumed control of the franchise's flagship magazine in New York. She revived a stagnant publication, a success that has earned her wide acclaim in the industry. Like one of her predecessors, Diana Vreeland, she has become a fashion icon. Her pageboy bob haircut and sunglasses have become a common sight in the front row of the most exclusive fashion shows. Universally hailed for her keen eye for fashion trends and support for younger designers, her aloof and demanding persona has earned her the nickname "Nuclear Wintour". A former personal assistant, Lauren Weisberger, wrote the 2003 bestselling roman à clef The Devil Wears Prada, later made into a successful film starring Meryl Streep as Miranda Priestly, a fashion editor widely believed to be based on Wintour.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Journalism


► Journalists



► Media experts



► Journalism by continent



► Journalism by country



► Journalism awards



► Journalism conferences



► Copy editing



► Criticism of journalism



► Crowdfunded journalism



► Journalism education



► Fact-checking websites



► Freedom of the press



► History of journalism



► Interviews



► Investigative journalism



► Journalism lists



► Newswriting



► Journalism occupations



► Journalism organizations



► Reporting specialties



► Source (journalism)



► Journalism standards



► Journalism terminology



► Types of journalism



► Works about journalism



► Journalism stubs










edit  
WikiProjects




WikiProject Journalism
WikiProject Law
WikiProject Media
WikiProject Politics
WikiProject Sociology

What are WikiProjects?




edit  
Original reporting

Original reporting from Wikinews


December 4: Oakland, California record release party catches fire
November 24: Gympie win Twenty20 cricket final on Australia's Sunshine Coast
November 14: India discontinues ₹500, ₹1000 denominations; releases ₹2000 and new ₹500 bills

More...





edit  
Selected quote







I rise today to support the efforts of citizens everywhere to protect free speech on the Internet. Today, the Supreme Court heard arguments to determine the constitutionality of the Communications Decency Act [CDA], which criminalizes certain speech on the Internet. It is because of the hard work and dedication to free speech by netizens everywhere that this issue has gained the attention of the public, and now, our Nation's highest court. I have maintained from the very beginning that the CDA is unconstitutional, and I eagerly await the Supreme Court's decision on this case.
— Jerrold Nadler, United States House of Representatives ("Free Speech on the Internet", Congressional Record, March 19, 1997)







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Mumia Abu-Jamal
 Jonathan Agnew
 Muhammad al-Durrah incident
 Isabella Beeton
 Ramón Emeterio Betances
 James G. Blaine
 Horatio Bottomley
 William D. Boyce
 Neville Cardus
 Ian Chappell
 Stephen Crane
 Mr. Dooley
 Double Seven Day scuffle
 Georg Forster
 Fuck (film)
 Margaret Fuller
 William Gibson
 Arthur Gilligan
 Horace Greeley
 Rufus Wilmot Griswold
 Warren G. Harding
 John Hay
 Ernest Hemingway
 Peter Jennings
 Ian Johnson (cricketer)
 Lord of the Universe
 James Russell Lowell
 Bruno Maddox
 Bill O'Reilly (cricketer)
 The Philadelphia Inquirer
 Ion Heliade Rădulescu
 Mark Satin
 Elliott Fitch Shepard
 Street newspaper
 Sunderland Echo
 Bazy Tankersley
 William Beach Thomas
 The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power
 Nathaniel Parker Willis
 Robert Sterling Yard
 Murder of Joanna Yeates


Featured lists


 Works of John Betjeman
 CPJ International Press Freedom Awards
 Fyodor Dostoyevsky bibliography
 George Orwell bibliography
 Dan Savage bibliography


Good articles


 1988–94 British broadcasting voice restrictions
 The American Israelite
 Antara (news agency)
 Arbeideren (Hamar)
 Erwin Arnada
 Ars Technica
 Azimzhan Askarov
 Nathaniel P. Banks
 Jay Barbree
 Rachel Barrett
 Robert Benchley
 A. Scott Berg
 Alexander Berkman
 Big Girls Don't Cry (book)
 Olly Blackburn
 Reid Blackburn
 Jesús Blancornelas
 Alexandru Bogdan-Pitești
 Neal Boortz
 Max Boot
 Geoffrey Boycott
 Gordon Brown
 Louise Bryant
 Manuel Buendía
 C-SPAN
 Panait Cerna
 Stephen Colbert
 Conscience-in-Media Award
 Myron Cope
 William B. Cornwell
 Cutting the Mustard
 Steve Dahl
 The Daily Show
 The Daily Stormer
 Mauro De Mauro
 Joseph Dennie
 Disneyland with the Death Penalty
 Donald Trump (Last Week Tonight)
 Casey Donovan (actor)
 Roger Ebert
 Wilfrid Eggleston
 Fairbanks Daily News-Miner
 Jessica Feshbach
 Ioan C. Filitti
 Jack Fingleton
 Five Days at Memorial
 Fleet Street
 Frank Sinatra Has a Cold
 Free Expression Policy Project
 Golos Truda
 Johan Hambro
 Bill Harry
 Lorena Hickok
 Ivar Hippe
 Louis Howe
 Illustrated Daily News
 Constantin Al. Ionescu-Caion
 David Irving
 Is Google Making Us Stupid?
 Peter Isaacson
 The Jakarta Post
 Mansoor al-Jamri
 Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
 Mark Kellogg (reporter)
 Jim Kilburn
 Mihail Kogălniceanu
 Judith Krug
 The Lady's Realm
 André Laguerre
 Nigella Lawson
 Bernard Levin
 Manifesto of the Sixteen
 Chelsea Manning
 Abby Martin
 Regina Martínez Pérez
 McCook Gazette
 Janice Min
 Mariano Moreno
 Luis Muñoz Rivera
 National Press Monument
 The National (Scotland)
 The New York Times
 Not in Front of the Children
 Nouvelles Extraordinaires de Divers Endroits
 Norm O'Neill
 Blas Ople
 Outrageous Betrayal
 Ioan Gyuri Pascu
 Polygon (website)
 William T. Porter
 Press pass
 Bolesław Prus
 Alfred Pullin
 Hamdi Qandil
 The Register-Guard
 Dick Rifenburg
 George Ripley (transcendentalist)
 Nick Robinson
 Rockism and poptimism
 Helen Rollason
 Eleanor Roosevelt
 Yoani Sánchez
 Michael Savage
 Stuart Scott
 Seara (newspaper)
 Sex, Sin, and Blasphemy
 Henryk Sienkiewicz
 The Signpost
 Mam Sonando
 Spin Alternative Record Guide
 Gloria Steinem
 Lucy Stone
 John Stossel
 Frank Swift
 Howard Llewellyn Swisher
 Tạ Phong Tần
 Tabloid Junkie
 The Technique
 Brian Tierney
 Tristan Tzara
 Murder of Udin
 Virginia Argus and Hampshire Advertiser
 Nils Vogt (journalist)
 WSJ.
 The War Within (Woodward book)
 Washington Blade
 Emmett Watson
 Walt Whitman
 Oscar Wilde
 George Wilkes
 Bob Willis
 Henry Wilson
 Anna Wintour
 Norman Yardley


Featured pictures







File:A Wilde time 3.jpg









File:Ernest Hemingway in Milan 1918 retouched 3.jpg









File:Mary Garrity - Ida B. Wells-Barnett - Google Art Project - restoration crop.jpg









edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Journalism}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of WikiProject Journalism.
Rate the unassessed articles according to the quality scale
Cleanup: CNN, 2003 invasion of Iraq media coverage, Editorial
Expand: L'Aurore, History of journalism, Journalist
Stubs: Documentary stubs, Journalist stubs, Newspaper stubs, Magazine stubs, Television news programme stubs, More stubs...
Category:Wikipedia requested photographs of journalists





edit  
Main topics


Journalism

Professional issues: News • Reportage • Writing • Ethics • Objectivity • Values • Attribution • Defamation • Editorial independence • Education • Other topics
Fields: Arts • Business • Environment • Fashion • Music • Science • Sports • Trade • Video games • Weather
Genres: Advocacy journalism • Citizen journalism • Civic Journalism • Gonzo journalism • Immersion journalism • Investigative journalism • Literary journalism • Narrative journalism • New Journalism • Visual journalism • Watchdog journalism
Social impact: Fourth Estate • Freedom of the press • Infotainment • Media bias • News propaganda • Public relations • Yellow journalism
News media: Newspapers • Magazines • News agencies • Broadcast journalism • Online journalism • Photojournalism • Alternative media • Online newspaper
Roles: Journalist • Reporter • Editor • Columnist • Commentator • Photographer • News presenter • Meteorologist




edit  
Related portals











Books
Culture
Current events
Literature
Politics









Photography
Radio
Society
Television
Writing






edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Journalism on Wikinews
News

Journalism on Wikiquote
Quotes

Journalism on Commons
Images

Journalism on Wikisource
Texts

Journalism on Wikibooks
Books

Journalism on Wikiversity
Courses







What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Journalism&oldid=742413875"					
Categories: Journalism portalJournalismSociety portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাDeutschFrançaisItalianoNederlands日本語PortuguêsТатарча/tatarçaTürkçe 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 October 2016, at 15:25.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.372","walltime":"0.536","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2893,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":182032,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":69887,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  346.943      1 -total"," 44.19%  153.331      1 Portal:Journalism/Features"," 40.66%  141.052      3 Template:Columns-list"," 36.20%  125.594    180 Template:Icon"," 31.84%  110.482      5 Template:Random_portal_component","  6.30%   21.850      1 Template:Featured_portal","  5.57%   19.326      1 Template:Top_icon","  4.22%   14.637      1 Template:Category_handler","  3.95%   13.713      1 Portal:Journalism/Selected_biography/Layout","  3.56%   12.339      1 Portal:Journalism/Selected_article/Layout"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.129","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1792009,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1239","timestamp":"20170210035907","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":613,"wgHostname":"mw1239"});});
