 







Portal:Children's literature

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Children's Literature Portal



Russell Lee


Children's literature is literature written for and/or marketed towards a primarily juvenile audience. While some books are authored for a youthful audience, others become associated with children through marketing or tradition. Still others are "crossover" books, read by children and adults alike. Literature addressed directly to children arose in Western Europe in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, becoming a very profitable industry in the 19th century. It includes picture books, fairy tales, animal stories, school stories, science fiction, fantasy, series fiction, chapter books, children's poetry, and other genres. Throughout its 300-year history, children's stories have reflected the values of the societies that produced them.


More about children's literature...





Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



Ender's Game (1985) is a science fiction novel by American author Orson Scott Card. Set in Earth's future, the novel presents an imperiled humankind who have barely survived two conflicts with the Formics (an insectoid alien race also known as the "Buggers"). In preparation for an anticipated third invasion, an international fleet maintains a school to find and train future fleet commanders. The world's most talented children, including the novel's protagonist, Ender Wiggin, are taken at a very young age to a training center known as the Battle School. There, teachers train them in the arts of war through increasingly difficult games where Ender's tactical genius is revealed. Reception to the book was generally positive, though some critics have denounced Card's perceived justification of his main character's violent actions. Ender's Game won the 1985 Nebula Award for best novel. Its sequels, Speaker for the Dead, Xenocide, Children of the Mind, and Ender in Exile, follow Ender's subsequent travels to many different worlds in the galaxy.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Jean de Brunhoff



Babar the Elephant (1931), created and illustrated by Jean de Brunhoff



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






February 1678 – Publication of John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress (pictured), which has never been out of print
February 1969 – First episode of the Swedish Pippi Longstocking television series airs
7 February 1867 – Birth of Laura Ingalls Wilder, author of the Little House on the Prairie books
12 February 1938 – Birth of Judy Blume, author of Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret, a frequently banned book
17 February 1870 – Introduction of the Elementary Education Act in Britain, guaranteeing children between the ages of 5 and 12 an education

More anniversaries...




edit  
Selected quote





Bye, baby bunting,
Daddy's gone a-hunting,
Gone to get a rabbit skin
To wrap the baby bunting in.
— Lullaby







...Archive/Nominations


More...








edit  
Selected biography



Christopher Smart (11 April 1722 – 21 May 1771) was an English poet. He was a major contributor to two popular magazines and a friend to influential cultural icons like Samuel Johnson and Henry Fielding. Smart, a high church Anglican, was widely known throughout London. Smart was infamous for his role as "Mrs. Mary Midnight" and widespread accounts of his father-in-law, John Newbery, locking him away in a mental asylum for many years over Smart's supposed religious "mania". Even after Smart's eventual release, a negative reputation continued to pursue him as he was known for incurring more debt than he could pay off; this ultimately led to his confinement in debtor's prison until his death. Smart's two most widely-known works are A Song to David and Jubilate Agno, both at least partly written during his confinement in asylum. However, Jubilate Agno was not to be published until 1939 and A Song to David received mixed reviews until the 19th century. To his contemporaries, Smart was known mainly for his many contributions in the journals The Midwife and The Student, along with his famous Seaton Prize poems and his mock epic The Hilliad. Although he is primarily recognized as a religious poet, his poetry includes various other themes, such as his theories on nature and his promotion of English nationalism. Some of his most famous religious poetry is Hymns for the Amusement of Children, one of the first books of hymns expressly written for a juvenile audience.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that Louis-Maurice Boutet de Monvel won a medal as a fine artist in Paris before becoming a children's book illustrator (example pictured)?
...that De brief voor de koning (The Letter for the King) by Tonke Dragt was chosen in 2004 by the judges of the Gouden Griffel as the best Dutch children's novel of the past fifty years?
... that the 1916 children's novel Just David was the second in a series of four consecutive bestsellers in the United States for Eleanor H. Porter?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
WikiProjects




Parent projects


Literature •  Books •  Novels


Main project


Wikipedia:WikiProject Children's literature


Related projects


Artemis Fowl •  Discworld •  Fablehaven •  Harry Potter •  Inheritance Cycle •  Lemony Snicket •  Redwall •  Oz


What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Categories







▼ Children's literature


► Children's literature by nationality



► Children's writers



► Children's literary awards



► Children's literature bibliographies



► Children's books



► Child characters in literature



► Characters in children's literature



► Children's literature criticism



► Children's book illustrators



► Children's libraries



► Children's magazines



► Children's literature organizations



► Children's poetry



► Pony books



► Children's book publishers



► Children's short stories



► Young adult literature



► Children's literature stubs











edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Chinua Achebe
 Bronwyn Bancroft
 Anna Laetitia Barbauld
 Enid Blyton
 The Coral Island
 Nancy Drew
 Edmund Evans
 Ian Fleming
 The Fox and the Hound (novel)
 Anne Frank
 The Guardian of Education
 The Hardy Boys
 The Hunger Games (novel)
 Lad, A Dog
 Lessons for Children
 Make Way for Ducklings
 Julianne Moore
 Baron Munchausen
 Original Stories from Real Life
 The Phantom Tollbooth
 Proserpine (play)
 Satyajit Ray
 Talbot Baines Reed
 Religious debates over the Harry Potter series
 J. K. Rowling
 Mary Martha Sherwood
 The Story of Miss Moppet
 Tom Swift
 The Adventures of Tintin
 To Kill a Mockingbird
 J. R. R. Tolkien
 Sarah Trimmer
 Mary Wollstonecraft


Featured lists


 Aurealis Award for best young-adult novel
 Andre Norton Award
 Timeline of Mary Wollstonecraft






edit  
Topics


Children's literature and Young adult literature
Children's literature: Book talk • Children's literature criticism • Children's literature periodicals • International Children's Digital Library • Native Americans in children's literature

Young adult literature: Gay teen fiction • Lesbian teen fiction • List of young adult authors • Young Adult Library Services Association
Associations and awards: Children's Book Council of Australia • CBCA book awards • Governor General's Literary Award for Children's Literature and Illustration • IBBY Canada • American Library Association • Association for Library Service to Children • Newbery Medal • Caldecott Medal • Golden Kite Award • Ezra Jack Keats Book Award • SCBWI • Sibert Medal • Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal • Batchelder Award • Coretta Scott King Award • Belpre Medal • Carnegie Medal • Kate Greenaway Medal • Nestlé Smarties Book Prize • Guardian Award • Hans Christian Andersen Award • Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award • Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators
Lists: List of children's classic books • List of children's literature authors • List of children's non-fiction writers • List of fairy tales • List of illustrators • List of publishers of children's books




edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Children's literature}} to the See also section of related articles.
Tag the talk pages of related articles with {{WikiProject Children's literature}}
Join WikiProject Children's literature and list yourself as a Participant in the project.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.
Deletion discussions: listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Literature
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed articles in the Children's literature WikiProject.
References: Add references to Unreferenced BLPs.
Requested articles: Create a requested article on literature
Stubs: Improve a stub-class article

edit







edit  
Related portals





Books



Education



Library and information science



Literature



Novels



Poetry



Twilight



Writing






edit  
Wikimedia




Literature on Wikinews    
Literature on Wikiquote    
Choosing High Quality Children's Literature on Wikibooks    
Children's literature on Wikisource    
Literature on Wiktionary    
Children's literature on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images & Media



























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Children%27s_literature&oldid=733644613"					
Categories: Children's literatureChildren's literature portalLiterature portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 August 2016, at 05:49.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.212","walltime":"0.350","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2411,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":105636,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":20042,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  248.759      1 -total"," 36.02%   89.607      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 15.04%   37.411      1 Portal:Children's_literature/Featured_content"," 14.01%   34.857      1 Portal:Children's_literature/Related_portals"," 13.66%   33.990      2 Template:Columns-list"," 13.50%   33.585      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 11.92%   29.658     36 Template:Icon"," 10.16%   25.280      8 Template:Related_portal_item","  9.65%   23.995      1 Portal:Children's_literature/Intro","  9.49%   23.618      8 Template:Portal_image"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.069","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2186878,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1257","timestamp":"20170213050151","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":62,"wgHostname":"mw1177"});});
