 







Portal:Latin music

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

The Latin music Portal
This is a subportal of the Music portal


Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







Introduction 






Julio Iglesias in 2005.


Latin music (Música latina in Spanish and Portuguese) is a musical category that encompasses music from the Spanish-speaking areas of the world (namely Latin America and Spain). Most definitions of Latin music also include Portuguese-language music from Brazil and sometimes Portugal as well. The term, "Latin music", originates from the United States (US) due to the growing influence of Hispanic and Latino Americans in the American music market, with notable pioneers including Xavier Cugat (1940s), Tito Puente (1950s), Antônio Carlos Jobim and Carlos Santana (1960s), and accelerating especially since the 1980s. US trade industry groups such as Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and Billboard magazine define "Latin music" as any type of release with most of its lyrics in Spanish regardless of genre.

More about Latin music...



View new selections below (purge)

Billboard Latin charts 



Billboard Hot Latin Songs (02/11/17)

The current number-one song on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs chart is "Chantaje" by Shakira featuring Maluma.


Billboard Top Latin Albums (02/11/17)

The current number-one album on the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart is Fénix by Nicky Jam.

Update





Did you know? - show another



... that the album Gloria by Mexican singer Gloria Trevi features a song dedicated to The Rolling Stones?
... that the number-one single "A Puro Dolor", performed by Son By Four, was written by Omar Alfanno in ten minutes?
... that Ricardo Arjona's compilation album, Trópico, includes performances by Elvis Crespo, Marc Anthony and Gilberto Santa Rosa?
... that the albums that shared the 1999 Lo Nuestro Award for Pop Album of the Year were nominated against each other at the 41st Grammy Awards?
... that the album A Time for Love recorded by Arturo Sandoval was inspired by trumpeter Bobby Hackett and the album Clifford Brown with Strings?
... that the Latin Grammy Award for Best Rock Solo Vocal Album was earned in 2009 by Draco Rosa for his album Teatro?

Suggest • Archive



Selected song - show another



"Quiero Bailar" or "Yo Quiero Bailar" (English: "I Want To Dance") is a song by Puerto Rican reggaetón recording artist Ivy Queen, from the platinum edition of her third studio album, Diva (2003). It was composed by Queen, produced by Iván Joy and released as the lead single from the album in 2004. It is the follow up to her debut single "In The Zone" which features Wyclef Jean. Lyrically, "the song talks about a guy expecting sex after a dance like it was a bad thing."
The song along with the album Diva are considered to be an important factor to reggaeton's mainstream exposure in 2004 alongside Daddy Yankee's Barrio Fino and Tego Calderon's El Enemy de los Guasibiri. The song became the first Spanish-language song to reach #1 on Miami's WPOW Rhythmic Top 40 while reaching the Top 10 of the Billboard Latin Rhythm Airplay chart. An accompanying music video was filmed for the song. It features cameos from her ex-husband Omar Navarro, known artistically as Gran Omar. Ivy Queen performed the song as a part of the set of her 2008 World Tour which was held from the José Miguel Agrelot Coliseum in San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Read more...
Suggest • Archive





Selected article or list - show another


The Grammy Award for Best Latin Jazz Album is an award presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards, to recording artists for quality works (songs or albums) in the Latin jazz music genre. Honors in several categories are presented at the ceremony annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to "honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position".
Originally called the Grammy Award for Best Latin Jazz Performance, the award was first presented to Arturo Sandoval in 1995. The name of the category was changed to Best Latin Jazz Album in 2001, the same year producers, engineers, and/or mixers associated with the winning work became award recipients in addition to the recording artists. According to the category description guide for the 52nd Grammy Awards, the award is presented to "vocal or instrumental albums containing at least 51% playing time of newly recorded material", with the intent to recognize the "blending" of jazz music with Argentinian, Brazilian, Iberian-American, and Latin tango music.

Read more...
Suggest • Archive



Selected album - show another


Dicen Que Soy (They Say That I Am) is the third studio album by Puerto Rican-American recording artist La India released on September 20, 1994 by RMM Records. The album was produced by American musician Sergio George, who chose the songs for India to record with an emphasis on feminism to suit with her voice. The production mixes salsa music with other rhythms such as funk and timba. Five singles were released from the record with "Nunca Voy a Olvidarte" and "Ese Hombre" topping the Billboard Tropical Songs chart.
Dicen Que Soy was well received by music critics for the arrangement and selection of songs for the album. The success of the record led to India receiving a Billboard Latin Music Award and a Lo Nuestro nomination. In the United States, it peaked at number four and one on the Billboard Top Latin Albums and Tropical Albums charts respectively, and has sold over 140,000 copies as of 2000.
Read more...
Suggest • Archive





Latin music WikiProject 









Wikipedia:WikiProject Latin music was created with the purpose of assembling writers and editors interested in Latin music.
The aim of this project is to standardize and improve articles related to the various genres of Latin music, as well as to create missing articles.
To become a member of the WikiProject (anyone may join), simply click here and add your username.









 FA 
 A 
 GA 
 B 
 C 
 Start 
 Stub 
 FL 
 List 
 Category 
 Disambig 
 Draft 
 File 
 Portal 
 Project 
 Template 
 NA 
 ??? 


More about WikiProject Latin music....






Featured content 



Featured content:
Billboard Top Latin Songs Year-End Chart · Fijación Oral, Vol. 1 · Formula, Vol. 1 · Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album · List of awards and nominations received by Ivy Queen · Latin Grammy Award for Album of the Year · Latin Grammy Award for Record of the Year · Latin Grammy Award for Song of the Year · Latin Recording Academy Person of the Year · List of number-one Billboard Top Latin Albums from the 1990s · Ricardo Arjona discography · Ricky Martin albums discography · Romance (Luis Miguel album)

See more: Recognized content







Categories 







Click the "►" below to see all subcategories:





► Latin music (genre)















Popular and traditional genres 








Alternative
Brazilian

MPB
Pagode
Rock
Samba
Sertaneja


Christian
Fado
Flamenco
Jazz
Nueva canción
Pop

Ballad
Tropipop


Regional Mexican

Banda
Duranguense
Grupera
Mariachi
Norteño
Ranchera
Tejano


Rock

Metal


Tango
Tropical

Bachata
Bolero
Cumbia
Fusion
Guajira
Merengue
Salsa
Son
Vallenato


Urban

Hip hop
Merenhouse
Reggae
Reggaeton














Related portals 




Alternative music

Christian music

Classical music

Country music

Electronic music



Heavy metal

Hip hop

Jazz

Pop music

Rock music


More music portals...




Associated WikiMedia 




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species














Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Latin_music&oldid=762790210"					
Categories: Music portalsLatin music (genre)Hidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 30 January 2017, at 19:30.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.224","walltime":"0.367","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4472,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":116301,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":8150,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":56,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  258.056      1 -total"," 30.11%   77.696      4 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 29.69%   76.626      1 Portal:Latin_music/Projects"," 29.17%   75.286      1 Template:Cat_class"," 26.36%   68.024     28 Template:Category_class/column"," 14.03%   36.208     28 Template:Cat_in_use"," 10.53%   27.178     18 Template:Class","  8.54%   22.032      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.27%   21.328      5 Template:Purge","  7.51%   19.373      1 Template:Top_icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.037","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1546678,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1212","timestamp":"20170211175110","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":68,"wgHostname":"mw1185"});});
