 







Portal:Music of Australia

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








The Music of Australia Portal 



Australian music is the name given to music originating in Australia. Whilst most modern trends in Australian music are based on similar trends from the United States or United Kingdom, traditional indigenous music dates back more than 60,000 years to the prehistory of Australia, and continues the ancient songlines through contemporary artists as diverse as Jimmy Little, Warumpi Band, Yothu Yindi, Tiddas, Wild Water, Christine Anu, Geoffrey Gurrumul Yunupingu, Saltwater Band, Nabarlek, Nokturnl, the Pigram Brothers, Coloured Stone, Blek Bala Mujik, Kev Carmody, Archie Roach and Ruby Hunter.
Rock music in Australia first became popular in the 1950s, with artists including Johnny O'Keefe topping charts around the world. This tradition was continued into the 1960s, by groups such as Billy Thorpe and the Aztecs, The Easybeats, and The Bee Gees. Throughout this time, Indigenous Australian music and Australian jazz remained consistently popular.
Pub rock was immensely popular in the 1980s, and the era was typified by Mental As Anything, Midnight Oil, The Angels, Cold Chisel and Icehouse. INXS and Men at Work also achieved fame worldwide, and the song "Down Under" became an unofficial anthem for Australia. Australian hip hop began in the early 1980s, primarily influenced by overseas works, but by the 1990s a distinctive local style had emerged, with Hilltop Hoods achieving international acclaim for their work.
The 90s saw an increase in the popularity of indie rock in Australia. AC/DC and INXS continued to achieve commercial success in the United States, whilst a multitude of local bands, including Regurgitator, You Am I, Powderfinger, Silverchair and Something for Kate, were popular throughout the country. A small electronic music scene emerged around Sydney and Melbourne, with Severed Heads, Ollie Olsen's No, and Foil all peaking in the 90s.
Australian music experienced somewhat of a rock renaissance in the 2000s with groups such as The Vines, Jet and Wolfmother charting internationally. Hilltop Hoods were the first Australian hip-hop group to reach the top of the ARIA chart. Channel 10's Australian Idol program was highly popular locally, as were the many "idols" produced.
More about Australian music...






Selected article - show another


Vulture Street is the fifth studio album by Australian alternative rock band Powderfinger, released on 29 July 2003, on Universal Records. Produced by Nick DiDia, Vulture Street was certified platinum, and spent 47 weeks on the ARIA Charts and peaked at #1. Singles from the album included "(Baby I've Got You) On My Mind", "Since You've Been Gone", "Love Your Way" and "Sunsets".
The album received nominations for ARIA Awards in five different categories in 2003, which included "Album of the Year", "Best Group" and "Best Rock Album". Vulture Street also received the award for "Best Cover Art", which featured Czech supermodel Eva Herzigová.
Vulture Street was described by certain critics as "a rawer, louder, but by no means unrefined" album. The title of the album was taken from a street in the Brisbane bohemian inner suburb of West End, Queensland, a city in which all Powderfinger members grew up in. (more...)
Archives...



Selected image - show another








Credit: DianeSunshineCoast



Guy Sebastian performing on his national The Memphis Tour with Stax Soul legend guitarist Steve Cropper who toured around Australia on all 18 concert dates.
Guy Theodore Sebastian (born October 26, 1981) is an Australian Pop/R&B/Soul singer-songwriter who was the first winner of Australian Idol in 2003. (more...)
Archives...



Things you can do 



from the WikiProject for Australian music...




Help to improve any of the articles listed here under "Suggestions for collaboration";
Develop a shortlist of suitable articles for targeting good article and featured article status;
Join WikiProject Australian music and help collaborate with other editors with similar interests; or
Find out other ways to contribute to Wikipedia and its articles.

More...



Related WikiProjects 



WikiProject Music

Australian Music



Crowded House
Kylie Minogue
Powderfinger




WikiProject Australia







Did you know... - show another



… that "Pick You Up" was the first Powderfinger song to be nominated for an ARIA Music Awards; the 1996 award for "Song of the Year"?



... that the 2008 Hillsong United album The I Heart Revolution: With Hearts as One was released as a USB flash drive containing the MP3 files of the songs, embedded into a rubber wristband?
… that Paul Piticco is the manager for Australian musicians including Bernard Fanning, The Grates, Drag, Powderfinger, and The Predators?
… that DJ Pee Wee Ferris was fined $124 000 in damages for illegally using other artist's music on one of his albums?

Archives...



Australian Aria charts 




The number-one Australian single in Australia in 2009 is Like It Like That by Guy Sebastian [1]

ARIA Charts (12/10/09)

The number-one single in Australia is "Sexy Bitch" by David Guetta featuring Akon.
The number-one album in Australia is The E.N.D. by the Black Eyed Peas.





Quality content 



Featured content:
AC/DC · Bernard Fanning · Crowded House awards · Dream Days at the Hotel Existence · Internationalist ·  "I Don't Remember" · Kylie Minogue · Kylie Minogue concert tours · Odyssey Number Five · Powderfinger · Powderfinger discography · Powderfinger awards · Silverchair awards · The Wiggles

See also: Good articles





Categories 


To display all subcategories click on the ►


▼ Australian music


► Australian music by city



► Albums by Australian artists



► Albums recorded in Australia



► Australian musical instruments



► Books about Australian music



► Australian choirs



► Classical music in Australia



► Concert tours of Australia



► Discographies of Australian artists



► Australia in the Eurovision Song Contest



► Australian folk-song collectors



► Australian music history



► Indigenous Australian music



► Australian music industry



► Australian music-related lists



► Australian music magazines



► Music competitions in Australia



► Australian musicologists



► Opera in Australia



► Australian record charts



► Music schools in Australia



► Australian songs



► Australian styles of music



► Music venues in Australia



► Australian music stubs











WikiProject Australian music 



The Australian music WikiProject is a project that helps to assemble writers and editors interested in the Music of Australia.
The aim of this project is to standardize and improve articles related to the various genres of Australian music, as well as to create missing articles.


To become a member of the Australian music WikiProject (anyone may join), simply click here - and add {{user|username}}.


More info on project....




Major topics 





Genres

Classical · Country · Immigrant music · Indigenous · Hip-hop · Humour · Jazz · Reggae · Rock (Pub rock · Indie · Punk · Metal) · Ska..






Organisations

ARIA · AIR · APRA · CMAA






Awards

ARIA Music Awards · AIR Awards · CMAA Country Music Awards of Australia · The Deadlys · Australian Music Prize · J Award · WAMi Awards · NT Indigenous Music Awards · Perth Dance Music Awards






Charts

ARIA Charts · AIR Charts · Kent Music Report · Triple J Hottest 100






Festivals

Big Day Out · Falls Festival · Homebake · Livid · National Folk Festival · Overcranked · Raggamuffin Music Festival · Splendour in the Grass · Soundwave · Tamworth Country Music Festival · WOMADelaide






Media

Channel V Australia · CMC · Community Radio · Countdown · Max · MTV · Rage · Triple J · triple j tv · Video Hits · VH1






National anthem

"Advance Australia Fair"






Cities and regions

Adelaide · Brisbane · Canberra · Melbourne · Sydney · Perth · Hobart






Lists

Timeline of trends in Australian music








Related portals 










Australia Portal
Music
AC/DC
Powderfinger








Jazz
Electronic music
Classical music
Country music








Music of Canada
Opera
R&B and Soul Music
Rock and Roll



More music portals...





Associated Wikimedia 





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species

















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Shortcuts to this page: Portal:Australian music • P:AUSMUSIC • P:AUSMUS

Purge server cache


^ End Of Year Top Australian Singles 2009. Australian Recording Industry Association. Retrieved March 30, 2010




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Music_of_Australia&oldid=664978532"					
Categories: Music of Australia portalMusic portals by countryAustralian musicHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 1 June 2015, at 06:10.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.188","walltime":"0.365","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1223,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":69114,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3403,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  243.550      1 -total"," 25.89%   63.067      2 Template:Random_portal_component"," 13.69%   33.343      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 12.11%   29.496      1 Template:Top_icon","  8.82%   21.478      1 Template:Category_handler","  8.06%   19.641      1 Portal:Music_of_Australia/DYK3/3","  7.00%   17.057      1 Portal:Music_of_Australia/WikiProject_Australian_music","  5.13%   12.500      1 Portal:Music_of_Australia/Music_of_Australia_topics","  5.05%   12.297     11 Portal:Music_of_Australia/box-header","  4.95%   12.063      1 Portal:Music_of_Australia/To-do"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.031","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1297259,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1247","timestamp":"20170206151336","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1242"});});
