 







Portal:Numismatics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Numismatics Portal





Numismatics (ancient Greek: νομισματική) is the scientific study of money and its history in all its varied forms. While numismatists are often characterized as studying coins, the discipline also includes a much larger study of payment media used to resolve debts and the exchange of goods.
Exonumia is the study of coin-like objects such as token coins and medals, and other items used in place of legal currency or for commemoration. Notaphily is the study of paper money or banknotes. Scripophily is the study and collection of stocks and Bonds. Numismatics is an ancient discipline, reaching as far back as Julius Caesar, who is often credited with writing the first book on numismatics. It can include the study of many different aspects relating to coins, including history, geography, economics, metallurgy, usage, and manufacturing processes.
Economic and historical studies of money's use and development are separate to the numismatists' study of money's physical embodiment (although the fields are related; economic theories of money's origin depend upon numismatics, for example).
More about Numismatics...



View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Selected article


€2 commemorative coins are special euro coins minted and issued by member states of the Eurozone since 2004 as legal tender. The coins typically commemorate the anniversaries of historical events or draw attention to current events of special importance. Eighteen variations of €2 commemorative coins have been minted. €2 commemorative coins have become collectibles.
The basis for the commemorative coins derived from a decision of the European Council, which repealed the prohibition of changing the national obverse sides of euro coins from 1 January 2004 onwards.
The face value of the coins, typically is less than their intrinsic value of between €3 and €12. The exceptions are San Marino and the Vatican City, where coins from the former are regularly sold for between €30 and €40, while coins from the latter are very rarely obtained for less than €100. Issued designs are made public in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Articles archive/Nominations...



edit  
Selected picture



Credit: The Euro Information Website & Sniff
Spanish €2 commemorative coin Centenary of the first edition of Miguel de Cervantes' El ingenioso hidalgo Don Quijote de la Mancha (2005).
Pictures archive/Nominations...



edit  
Did you know...




...that with its two-dollar coin (reverse pictured), Newfoundland was the only British colony to issue circulating gold coinage?
...that Mount Burgess is nicknamed the Ten Dollar Mountain because it was featured on Canadian currency?
...that the American Buffalo gold bullion coin was the first .9999 fine 24-carat gold coin released by the United States Mint?
...that the Alabama centennial half dollar was the first commemorative coin minted with the image of a living individual?
...that Aksumite currency was the only native coinage to be issued in Africa without direct influence by an outside culture like Roman, Greek, etc...?

Archive



edit  
Web resources




NumisWiki
International Association of Professional Numismatists
American Numismatic Association
American Numismatic Society
British Numismatic Association
American Vecturist Association
Challenge Coin Association
Numismatic Museum of Athens, Greece



The Perth Mint Australia
Central Mint of China
Royal Mint
The French Mint
United States Mint
Bank of Russia
Royal Canadian Mint
Exact Change numismatic software



European Central Bank
World Bank
US Federal Reserve






edit  
Related portals









Philately
Business and economics
Heraldry








edit  
Selected issue


The British Fifty Pence coin was issued on October 14, 1969 in the run-up to decimalisation. The coin is minted from an alloy of 75% copper and 25% nickel. Note that the coin is not circular but an equilaterally curved heptagon. This denomination has frequently been used for commemorative purposes, and consequently there are more design variations in this coin than in any other current British denomination.
The normal reverse of the coin, designed by Christopher Ironside, depicts the seated Britannia with a lion. Three different effigies of Queen Elizabeth II have been used on the obverse.
Issues archive/Nominations...



edit  
Banknotes



Credit: commons:User:Red devil 666
Series of 1886 $1 silver certificates portraying Martha Washington, the only woman in United States history to be featured on its banknotes.
Banknotes archive/Nominations...



edit  
Numismatic terminology



Bullion - Precious metals (platinum, gold and silver) in the form of bars, ingots or plate.
Error - Usually a mis-made coin not intended for circulation, but can also refer to an engraving or die-cutting error not discovered until the coins are released to circulation. This may result is two or more varieties of the coin in the same year.
Exonumia is the study of coin-like objects such as token coins and medals, and other items used in place of legal currency or for commemoration.
Fineness - Purity of precious metal content expressed in terms of one thousand parts. 90% is expressed as .900 fine.
Notaphily is the study of paper money or banknotes.
Scripophily is the study and collection of stocks and Bonds.

More...




edit  
Categories



Numismatic categories   •   Currency lists




Banknotes
Bullion coins
Coins
Commemorative coins
Currency images
Exonumia
Mints (currency)
Currency unions
Numismatists
Numismatics journals
Postal orders




Central banks
Currencies
Circulating currencies
Historical currencies
US community currencies
Canadian community currencies
Mints
Motifs on banknotes









edit  
WikiProjects



Business
Numismatics
Philately







edit  
Numismatic News


January 1, 2008 Venezuela launched a new currency with the new year, lopping off three zeros from denominations in a bid to simplify finances and boost confidence in a money that has been losing value due to high inflation. The new currency is called bolívar fuerte or "strong bolívar". Officials also say it is part of a broader effort to contain rising prices and strengthen the economy. More...
January 1, 2008






Today at midnight, the Cyprus and the Malta adopted the euro as their official currency; less than four years after their accession to the European Union. The single currency has replaced the Cypriot pound and the Maltese lira at a rate of one euro to 0.585274 Cypriot pound and 0.4293 to the Maltese lira. In both countries the euro was welcomed with outdoor celebrations, including a fireworks display in Malta's capital Valletta. More...
September 26, 2007
Designs for three of four themes proposed for the reverse of 2009 Lincoln cents to honor Abraham Lincoln's life were endorsed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee. More...

Archive...



edit  
Numismatic topics



Money - Coins - Banknotes - Electronic money - Exchange rate - Legal tender - Clubs - Terminology


Ancient currency: Asia - Byzantium - Greece - Primitive Money - Roman - Indian coinage


Modern currency: Africa - The Americas - Asia and the Pacific - Europe - Bullion coins - Challenge coin - Commemorative coins - Token coins


Economics: Banking - Bonds - Cheques - Credit Cards - Fiat currency - Gold standard - Mints - Monetary union - Reserve currency - Stocks


Production: Coining (machining) - Designers - Die making - Mint (coin) • Coinage Metals: Aluminum - Bronze - Copper - Gold - Platinum - Silver - Tin


Exonumia - Notaphily - Scripophily





edit  
Things you can do







Here are some Numismatics related tasks you can do



Requested Images: Guinea (British coin), English coin Three Farthings, Palladium coin, Nabataean coinage, Commemorative coins of Poland, more...
Wikify and Cleanup: Twenty pence (English coin), Canadian Silver Maple Leaf, Chinese Silver Panda, Common coin errors, Gold standard, Coin grading, Euro, History of the English penny (1154-1485), Petrocurrency, more...
Merge: St. Gaudens Double Eagle, more...
Expand: Coins of Australia, Half sovereign, 5 yen coin, Canadian Silver Maple Leaf, Coins of Ireland, Series of 1928 (United States Currency), Royal Mint, Achaemenid currency, Elymais, Roman provincial coins, Seleucid coinage, Nabataean coinage, South Vietnamese đồng, more...
Stubs: Aes rude, Airman's coin, Banliang, Brockage, Central Mint of China, Chinese currency, Cistophorus, Dahlonega Mint, Doubloon, Fed Shreds, Flying Eagle cent, Gold Coinage Act, Napoleon (coin), Pattern coin, Star note, Texas redbacks, Zuz (coin), Polish Mint, more...
Improve to GA: History of money, Numismatics, Roman currency, Money, Ancient Greek coinage, Fiat currency, United States Mint, Canadian Silver Maple Leaf, Banknotes of Zimbabwe, more...
Improve to FA: Peace Dollar, more...
Projects: Finish Assessment, Expand and reorganize style guide, New category structure, Infoboxes: designing and adding to pages, more...








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Economics on Wikinews
Money on Wikiquote
Numismatics on Wikibooks
Numismatics on Wikisource
Currencies on Wikicommons



















News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Images








What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Numismatics&oldid=740717012"					
Categories: NumismaticsHistory portalsSociety portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어ItalianoMagyarNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусский中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 22 September 2016, at 20:47.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.156","walltime":"0.294","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1665,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":71838,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3640,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  187.622      1 -total"," 23.98%   44.993      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 18.06%   33.880      1 Portal:Numismatics/WikiProjects"," 11.33%   21.254      1 Template:Featured_portal","  9.93%   18.639      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.79%   14.621      1 Portal:Numismatics/Wikimedia","  7.54%   14.141      1 Template:Purge","  7.36%   13.807      1 Template:Category_handler","  6.97%   13.071     15 Template:Box-header","  6.58%   12.348     11 Portal:Numismatics/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.026","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1054597,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1173","timestamp":"20170206172924","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":96,"wgHostname":"mw1211"});});
