 







Portal:Opera

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Opera Portal



Vienna State Opera


Opera is an art form in which singers and musicians perform a dramatic work (called an opera) which combines a text (called a libretto) and a musical score. Opera is part of the Western classical music tradition. Opera incorporates many of the elements of spoken theatre, such as acting, scenery and costumes and sometimes includes dance. The performance is typically given in an opera house, accompanied by an orchestra or smaller musical ensemble.
Opera started in Italy at the end of the 16th century (with Jacopo Peri's lost Dafne, produced in Florence around 1597) and soon spread through the rest of Europe: Schütz in Germany, Lully in France, and Purcell in England all helped to establish their national traditions in the 17th century. However, in the 18th century, Italian opera continued to dominate most of Europe, except France, attracting foreign composers such as Handel. Opera seria was the most prestigious form of Italian opera, until Gluck reacted against its artificiality with his "reform" operas in the 1760s. Today the most renowned figure of late 18th century opera is Mozart, who began with opera seria but is most famous for his Italian comic operas, especially The Marriage of Figaro, Don Giovanni, and Così fan tutte, as well as The Magic Flute, a landmark in the German tradition.
The first third of the 19th century saw the highpoint of the bel canto style, with Rossini, Donizetti and Bellini all creating works that are still performed today. It also saw the advent of Grand Opera typified by the works of Meyerbeer. The mid to late 19th century is considered by some a golden age of opera, led by Wagner in Germany and Verdi in Italy. This 'golden age' developed through the verismo era in Italy and contemporary French opera through to Puccini and Strauss in the early 20th century. During the 19th century, parallel operatic traditions emerged in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly in Russia and Bohemia. The 20th century saw many experiments with modern styles, such as atonality and serialism (Schoenberg and Berg), Neo-Classicism (Stravinsky), and Minimalism (Philip Glass and John Adams). With the rise of recording technology, singers such as Enrico Caruso became known to audiences beyond the circle of opera fans. Operas were also performed on (and written for) radio and television.


More about Opera...





View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Selected article



Tosca (Italian pronunciation: [ˈtoska]) is an opera in three acts by Giacomo Puccini to an Italian libretto by Luigi Illica and Giuseppe Giacosa. It premiered at the Teatro Costanzi in Rome on 14 January 1900. The work, based on Victorien Sardou's 1887 French-language dramatic play, La Tosca, is a melodramatic piece set in Rome in June 1800, with the Kingdom of Naples's control of Rome threatened by Napoleon's invasion of Italy. It depicts graphic scenes of torture, murder and suicide, yet it contains some of Puccini's best-known lyrical arias, and has inspired memorable performances from many of opera's leading singers. Puccini saw Sardou's play when it was touring Italy in 1889 and, after some vacillation, obtained the rights to turn the work into an opera in 1895. Turning the wordy French play into a succinct Italian opera took four years, during which the composer repeatedly argued with his librettists and publisher. While critics have frequently dismissed the opera as a facile melodrama with confusions of plot—musicologist Joseph Kerman famously called it a "shabby little shocker"—the power of its score and the inventiveness of its orchestration have been widely acknowledged. The dramatic force of Tosca and its characters continues to fascinate both performers and audiences, and the work remains one of the most frequently performed operas.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured picture








Credit: Massimo Catarinella



The facade of the Concertgebouw concert hall in Amsterdam. It opened on 11 April 1888, with an inaugural concert in which an orchestra of 120 musicians and a chorus of 500 singers performed works by Wagner, Handel, Bach, and Beethoven. The hall now hosts 800 performances every year, including concert performances of opera. Its resident orchestra, the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra, also serves as one of the orchestras for The Netherlands Opera.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






10 February 1910 - The celebrated soprano and actress Maria Cebotari was born in Chişinău.
14 February 1952 – Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress received its American première at the Metropolitan Opera in New York.
16 February 1922 – The Welsh baritone, Sir Geraint Evans, was born in Cilfynydd.
17 February 1912 – Roma, the last of Massenet's operas to premiere in his lifetime, opened at the Opéra de Monte-Carlo.
24 February 1776 - Milan's Teatro Regio Ducal which had seen the premieres of Mozart's Ascanio in Alba, Mitridate, re di Ponto, and Lucio Silla was burned down following a carnival gala.
24 February 1711 - Three hundred years ago today, Handel's opera Rinaldo premiered at The Queen's Theatre in London.
27 February 1897 – The American contralto, Marian Anderson (pictured), was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
29 February 1792 – Italian composer Gioachino Rossini was born in Pesaro.

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected biography



Sir Harold Malcolm Watts Sargent (29 April 1895 – 3 October 1967) was an English conductor, organist and composer widely regarded as Britain's leading conductor of choral works. The musical ensembles with which he was associated included the Ballets Russes, the Royal Choral Society, the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company, and the London Philharmonic, Hallé, Liverpool Philharmonic, BBC Symphony and Royal Philharmonic orchestras. As chief conductor of London's internationally famous summer music festival the Proms from 1948 to 1967, Sargent was one of the best-known English conductors. His fame extended beyond the concert hall: to the British public, he was a familiar broadcaster in BBC radio talk shows, and generations of Gilbert and Sullivan devotees have known his recordings of the most popular Savoy Operas. Sargent toured widely throughout the world and was noted for his skill as a conductor, his debonair appearance, and his championship of British composers.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected quote







I wish to sing of my interior visions with the naïve candour of a child. No doubt, this simple musical grammar will jar on some people. It is bound to offend the partisans of deceit and artifice. I foresee that and rejoice at it.
— Claude Debussy







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Selected audio




Pleurez, pleurez, mes yeux








From Jules Massenet's Le Cid sung by Marguerite Sylva in 1910.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that the majority of the more than 90 stage works composed by Thomas Arne (pictured) are now lost, probably destroyed in the disastrous fire at Covent Garden in 1808?
... that Partenope was the first opera written by an American-born composer?
... that opera singer Nell Rankin used her pet jaguar, King Tut, as a negotiating tool at the Metropolitan Opera?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
WikiProjects



Parent projects

WikiProject Arts • WikiProject Music • WikiProject Theatre


Main project

WikiProject Opera

Descendant projects

WikiProject Richard Wagner • WikiProject Gilbert and Sullivan

Similar projects

WikiProject Classical music • WikiProject Composers

What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Main topics


Opera history: Origins of opera •  Italian opera •  Opera in German •  French opera •  Opera in English •  Polish opera •  Russian opera •  Hungarian opera •  Armenian opera •  Opera in Latin America

Opera genres: Azione teatrale · Ballad opera · Comédie en vaudeville · Comédie mêlée d'ariettes · Dramma giocoso · Dramma per musica · Farsa · Festa teatrale · Género chico · Grand Opera · Music Drama · Opéra-ballet · Opera buffa · Opéra bouffe · Opéra bouffon · Opéra comique · Opéra féerie · Opera semiseria · Opera seria · Operetta · Pastorale héroïque · Romantische Oper · Savoy opera · Semi-opera · Singspiel · Spieloper · Tragédie en musique · Verismo · Zarzuela · Zeitoper
Opera terms: Aria · Aria di sorbetto · Arioso · Bel canto · Breeches role · Burletta · Cabaletta · Cadenza · Cantabile · Castrato · Cavatina · Chest voice · Claque · Coloratura · Comprimario · Convenienze · Coup de glotte · Da capo aria · Diva · Entr'acte · Fach · Falsetto · Fioritura · Gesamtkunstwerk · Head voice · Intermezzo · Kammersänger · Leitmotif · Legato · Libretto · Literaturoper · Mad scene · Maestro · Melodrama · Melodramma · Monodrama · Messa di voce · Opera house · Passaggio · Portamento · Prima donna · Prompter · Recitative · Regietheater · Répétiteur · Sitzprobe · Spinto · Sprechgesang · Squillo · Stagione · Surtitles · Tessitura · Timbre · Vibrato
Opera voices: Baritenor · Baritone · Bass · Bass-baritone · Coloratura soprano · Contralto · Countertenor · Dramatic soprano · Haute-contre · Lyric soprano · Mezzo-soprano · Soprano · Soubrette · Spinto soprano · Tenor · Tenore contraltino · Tenore di grazia
Opera lists: Opera topics •  The opera corpus •  Important operas •  Major opera composers •  Opera librettists •  Opera houses •  Opera companies •  Opera festivals •  Opera directors •  Operetta composers •  Orphean operas •  Zarzuela composers •  Opera genres •  Operas set in the Crusades •  The Record of Singing •  Bayreuth canon




edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Agrippina (opera)
 L'ange de Nisida
 L'Arianna
 The Bartered Bride
 Georges Bizet
 Benjamin Britten
 Carmen
 English National Opera
 Falstaff (opera)
 Kathleen Ferrier
 Gianni Schicchi
 Handel's lost Hamburg operas
 Her Majesty's Theatre
 L'incoronazione di Poppea
 Lost operas by Claudio Monteverdi
 Jules Massenet
 Carl Nielsen
 Nixon in China
 Noye's Fludde
 L'Orfeo
 Les pêcheurs de perles
 Maurice Ravel
 Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov
 Rinaldo (opera)
 Il ritorno d'Ulisse in patria
 The Royal Opera
 Dmitri Shostakovich
 Bedřich Smetana
 Charles Villiers Stanford
 Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky
 Michael Tippett
 Tosca
 Richard Wagner


Featured lists


 List of important operas
 List of operas by Mozart


Good articles


 W. H. Auden
 Ferruccio Busoni
 The Castafiore Emerald
 Patrice Chéreau
 Erik Chisholm
 Doctor Ox's Experiment (opera)
 The Fairy-Queen
 Fatinitza
 Éva Gauthier
 Grant Park Music Festival
 Julius Harrison
 Leoš Janáček
 Felix Mendelssohn
 André Messager
 Giacomo Meyerbeer
 Jacques Offenbach
 Orfeo ed Euridice
 Antonio Paoli
 Parsifal
 Sergei Prokofiev
 Maria Radner
 Robert le diable
 Johann Strauss II
 Twice Through the Heart
 Va tacito e nascosto
 Giuseppe Verdi
 Wales Millennium Centre
 Welsh National Opera
 Steuart Wilson







edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Opera}} to the See also section of opera-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of opera-related articles with {{WikiProject Opera}}
Join WikiProject Opera and list yourself as a participant in the project.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available, updated weekly. More information...
Rate the Unassessed opera articles in the Opera WikiProject.
Requested articles: Create or request an article on an opera-related topic.
Stubs needing expansion: English-language opera stubs, French-language opera stubs, German-language opera stubs, Italian-language opera stubs, Opera biography stubs, Opera company stubs, Opera singer stubs, Opera structure stubs, More...








edit  
Categories






▼ Opera


► Operas



► Opera by country



► Opera competitions



► Opera composers



► Opera critics



► Opera designers



► The Devil in opera



► Opera directors



► Opera discographies



► Opera excerpts



► Opera festivals



► Opera genres



► Opera history



► Opera houses



► Opera libretti



► Opera librettists



► Opera-related lists



► Opera managers



► Opera museums



► Music directors (opera)



► Opera organizations



► Opera publishing companies



► Opera recordings



► Répétiteurs



► Opera scholarship



► Opera singers



► Stagecraft



► Opera terminology



► Works about opera



► Opera stubs










edit  
Related portals












Arts
Music
Classical music
Theatre
Musical Theatre
Gilbert and Sullivan






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Opera on Wikiquote 
Opera on Wikibooks 
Opera on Wikisource 
Opera on Wiktionary 
Opera on Wikiversity 
Opera on Wikimedia Commons


Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Opera&oldid=738323237"					
Categories: Opera portalOperaHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


AzərbaycancaFrançaisGalegoMagyarBahasa MelayuРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 September 2016, at 06:56.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.288","walltime":"0.506","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2521,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":127528,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":29262,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  354.947      1 -total"," 30.76%  109.190      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.05%   67.614      1 Portal:Opera/Featured_content"," 17.25%   61.226      3 Template:Columns-list"," 14.68%   52.093     64 Template:Icon"," 10.28%   36.490      1 Portal:Opera/Intro","  9.44%   33.507      1 Portal:Opera/Intro/Image","  8.59%   30.490      1 Template:Random_subpage","  8.13%   28.841      9 Portal:Opera/box-header","  6.28%   22.286      9 Portal:Opera/box-footer"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.081","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2125283,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1242","timestamp":"20170206173125","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":91,"wgHostname":"mw1219"});});
