 







Portal:Star Trek

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





edit  
The Star Trek Portal



Galactic quadrant (Star Trek)



Shortcuts:

P:TREK
P:PST


Star Trek is an American science fiction entertainment franchise created by Gene Roddenberry and currently under the ownership of CBS. The franchise began in 1966 with the television series Star Trek, later referred to as Star Trek: The Original Series. This series, its spin-off shows: Star Trek: The Animated Series, Star Trek: The Next Generation, Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Star Trek: Voyager and Star Trek: Enterprise, as well as the film series make up the core of the franchise's mythos. While the critical response to much of the franchise varies, many individual Star Trek episodes and films have won awards and honors including Emmy Awards, Hugo Awards and an Academy Award.
Westerns such as Wagon Train, along with the Horatio Hornblower novels and Gulliver's Travels, inspired Roddenberry when he created the first Star Trek. It followed the interstellar adventures of James T. Kirk and the crew of an exploration vessel of a 23rd century galactic "United Federation of Planets" — the Starship Enterprise. This first series, now referred to as "The Original Series", debuted in 1966 and ran for three seasons on NBC. These adventures continued in the short-lived Star Trek: The Animated Series and six feature films. Four spin-off television series were eventually produced: Star Trek: The Next Generation, followed the crew of a new Starship Enterprise set a century after the original series; Star Trek: Deep Space Nine and Star Trek: Voyager, set contemporaneously with The Next Generation; and Star Trek: Enterprise, set before the original series, in the early days of human interstellar travel. Four additional The Next Generation feature films were produced. In 2009, the prequel of the original series (set in an alternate timeline) Star Trek featuring a new cast portraying younger versions of the crew from the original Enterprise appeared. A sequel to this film, Star Trek Into Darkness, premiered on May 16, 2013.
Star Trek has been a cult phenomenon since its beginning. Fans of the franchise are called Trekkies or Trekkers. The franchise spans a wide range of spin-offs including games, figurines, novels, toys, and comics. Star Trek had a themed attraction in Las Vegas which opened in 1998 and closed in September 2008. At least two museum exhibits of props travel the world. The series even has its own full-fledged constructed language, Klingon. Several parodies have been made of Star Trek and its fans, despite the end of Star Trek episodes on TV, and several fan productions have been produced in that void.
Star Trek is noted for its influence on the world outside of science fiction. It has been cited as an inspiration for several technological inventions such as the cell phone. Moreover, the show is noted for its progressive civil rights stances. The original series included one of television's first multiracial casts, and the first inter-racial kiss in a drama series on American television. Star Trek references can be found throughout popular culture from movies such as the submarine thriller Crimson Tide to the cartoon series South Park.


More about Star Trek...





Show new selections



edit  
Selected episode



"Encounter at Farpoint" was the first episode of the television series Star Trek: The Next Generation, and was originally aired in broadcast syndication on September 28, 1987. The episode introduced the crew of the USS Enterprise-D and the recurring character of Q (John de Lancie) who would go on to appear in every season of The Next Generation except for one and both Deep Space Nine and Voyager. In the plot, the ship is sent to Farpoint Station to investigate it, and after being intercepted by Q and placed on trial for the crimes of humanity, Captain Jean-Luc Picard (Patrick Stewart) and the crew manage to reveal the truth about the station. The plot was developed from a story which originally saw the Enterprise encounter an alien lifeform the size of a space ship which had been enslaved by an alien race, and the crew attempts to free it. The plot was re-written and Q added in order to lengthen it to a double-length episode. DeForest Kelley made a guest appearance as Admiral Leonard McCoy in the episode. The episode was broadcast on 98 independent stations and 112 network affiliates, gaining a viewing audience of 27 million and the series was immediately called the "highest-rated syndicated one-hour drama series on television". Reviews at the time was mixed and compared the episode to The Original Series, while later reviewers mostly praised it.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture





Credit: Martijn Janssen
Scene from ’u’ the opera, performed at the Zeebelt theatre in the Hague, The Netherlands on September 10, 2010.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Anniversaries this month






2 February 2010 – The massively multiplayer online role-playing game Star Trek Online was released in North America
18 February 1969 – NBC announced that they cancelled Star Trek: The Original Series
25 February 2013 – Following a campaign by several Star Trek actors, Vulcan wins a Internet-based poll to name S/2011 (134340) 1, a moon in orbit of Pluto
25 February 2015 – The death of Leonard Nimoy (pictured), who had portrayed Spock in Star Trek: The Original Series and the film franchise

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected article



Nighthawk, is a flying roller coaster in California's Great America which originally opened as Stealth on April 1, 2000. It was subsequently decided to re-locate the roller coaster, and it was moved to Carowinds in South Carolina where it replaced the Carolina Sternwheeler Riverboat. It reopened on March 20, 2004 as the Borg Assimilator having been repainted grey and green - the first coaster in the world to be themed for the Star Trek franchise. The intention was to allow the riders to have an unobstructed view of the surrounding theme park. The track is 2,760 feet (840 m) in length and the height of the lift is approximately 115 feet (35 m). The coaster takes 48 passengers at a time, with each of the two trains carrying 24 passengers across six cars each. The coaster includes five inversions, including a double corkscrew and a vertical loop. An incident occurred in 2007 when seven employees received minor injuries during a pre-season run. After Cedar Fair purchased the park, the Paramount theming was removed, with the coaster renamed to Nighthawk and repainted prior to the 2008 season. The coaster is one of only three Flying Dutchman models in existence which were built by Vekoma.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that the creators of the Kickstarter-funded Star Trek: Renegades hope to use it as a pilot for a new series on CBS?
... that Bobbi Sue Luther (pictured) claimed that her costume in the Star Trek: Enterprise episode "Borderland" was skimpier than her normal outfits as a lingerie and bikini model?
... that Maurice Hurley was credited for writing the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "Hide and Q" under a pseudonym in protest against Gene Roddenberry's numerous rewrites?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Wikiprojects



Parent projects
Arts • Entertainment • Science Fiction • Television





Main projects
Star Trek


Related Projects
Animation • Biography • Comics • Film • Fictional characters • Media franchises • Music • Novels • Video games


What are WikiProjects?





edit  
Categories






▼ Star Trek


► Star Trek characters



► Star Trek devices



► Star Trek episodes



► Star Trek fandom



► Star Trek images



► Star Trek lists



► Star Trek locations



► Star Trek organizations



► Star Trek politics



► Star Trek sayings



► Star Trek spacecraft



► Star Trek species



► Star Trek seasons



► Star Trek television series



► Star Trek terminology



► Star Trek wars and battles



► Works about Star Trek



► Works based on Star Trek



► Star Trek stubs













edit  
Selected quote









“
The premise of the show was to show the public that there was a hopeful future. We, as the human race, were going to develop in a positive way, and that by the time we got to the 24th century there would be no need for money. Everyone would get along much better, there would be no countries on Earth, we would just be a planet. It was a very hopeful idea, and Gene believed in that.
”


— Marina Sirtis, actress, portrayed Commander Deanna Troi, Ship's Counselor on Star Trek: The Next Generation and subsequent movies







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Main topics


Star Trek

Television series: The Original Series (episodes) • The Animated Series (episodes) • The Next Generation (episodes) • Deep Space Nine (episodes) • Voyager (episodes) • Enterprise (episodes)
Feature films: The Motion Picture • The Wrath of Khan • The Search for Spock •The Voyage Home • The Final Frontier • The Undiscovered Country • Generations • First Contact • Insurrection • Nemesis • Star Trek • Into Darkness • Beyond
Fictional elements: Alien races • Characters • Deep Space Nine • Prime Directive • Stardates • Starfleet • Timeline • Starship Enterprise • United Federation of Planets • USS Defiant • USS Voyager • Weapons
Other topics: Canon • Comics • Cultural influence • Fan productions • Fandom • Games • Memory Alpha • Novels • Physics • Reference books • Sexuality • Star Trek: The Experience • Star Trek: Phase II
Production staff: J. J. Abrams • Ira Steven Behr • Rick Berman • Brannon Braga • Manny Coto • Damon Lindelof • Ronald D. Moore • Michael Okuda • Michael Piller • Gene Roddenberry • Jeri Taylor




edit  
Quality content


Featured articles


 Eric Bana
 The Man Trap
 Mind Meld
 Rejoined
 Khan Noonien Singh
 Space Seed
 Star Trek: The Motion Picture
 Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan
 Star Trek III: The Search for Spock
 Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home
 Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country
 Star Trek: First Contact
 Star Trek V: The Final Frontier
 These Are the Voyages...
 Tasha Yar
 Yesterday's Enterprise


Featured lists


 List of Star Trek: The Next Generation cast members
 Gene Roddenberry filmography
 List of awards and nominations received by Gene Roddenberry
 List of accolades received by Star Trek Into Darkness
 List of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine cast members
 List of accolades received by Star Trek (film)


Good articles


 The 37's
 11001001
 Acquisition (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 The Aenar
 Affliction (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Angel One
 Anomaly (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 The Arsenal of Freedom
 The Augments
 Awakening (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Azati Prime
 Babel One
 Bat'leth
 The Battle (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 The Big Goodbye
 Blood Oath (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)
 Borderland (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Bound (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Captive Pursuit
 Carpenter Street (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Cause and Effect (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Chakotay
 Christine Chapel
 The Child (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Code of Honor (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Cold Station 12
 Coming of Age (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Conspiracy (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 The Council (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Countdown (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Benedict Cumberbatch
 Daedalus (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Datalore
 Ezri Dax
 Dear Doctor
 Demons (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Devil's Due (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Divergence (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 E²
 Elogium
 Encounter at Farpoint
 Enterprise (NX-01)
 Exile (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Extinction (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Faces (Star Trek: Voyager)
 Family (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 First Flight (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 First interracial kiss on television
 Vic Fontaine
 The Forge (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Half a Life (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Haven (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Heart of Glory
 Heart of Stone (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)
 Heroes and Demons
 Hide and Q
 Home Soil
 Home (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Hope and Fear
 Horizon (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 The Host (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 I, Borg
 In Theory (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 In a Mirror, Darkly
 In the Hands of the Prophets
 The Infinite Vulcan
 Initiations (Star Trek: Voyager)
 Janeway Lambda one
 Justice (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Kazon
 Killing Time (Star Trek novel)
 Harry Kim (Star Trek)
 Kir'Shara
 The Last Outpost (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 The Last Voyage of the Starship Enterprise
 Lessons (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Lonely Among Us
 Looking for par'Mach in All the Wrong Places
 The Magicks of Megas-tu
 Marauders (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 The Naked Now
 The Neutral Zone (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 A Night in Sickbay
 Nighthawk (roller coaster)
 North Star (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Not All Dogs Go to Heaven
 Observer Effect (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Roberto Orci
 Our Man Bashir
 Parallels (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Past Prologue
 The Perfect Mate
 The Pirates of Orion
 Projections (Star Trek: Voyager)
 Katherine Pulaski
 Q-Less
 Q Who
 Rajiin
 Janice Rand
 Rascals (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Regeneration (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Ro Laren
 Early life and career of Gene Roddenberry
 Gene Roddenberry
 Sarek (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Shades of Gray (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 The Shipment (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Skin of Evil
 Spock Must Die!
 Star Trek (2013 video game)
 Star Trek: Enterprise (season 2)
 Star Trek: Enterprise
 Star Trek: Enterprise (season 4)
 Star Trek: Insurrection
 Star Trek: Phase II
 Star Trek: Planet of the Titans
 Star Trek: Secret of Vulcan Fury
 Star Trek
 Star Trek: The God Thing
 Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 1)
 Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 2)
 Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 3)
 Star Trek: Voyager – Elite Force
 Star Trek: Voyager (season 4)
 Star Trek (film)
 Storm Front (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 The Survivor (Star Trek: The Animated Series)
 The Sword of Kahless
 Symbiosis (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Tapestry (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Terra Prime
 Tin Man (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Too Short a Season
 Trials and Tribble-ations
 The Trouble with Tribbles
 Tsunkatse
 Tuvix
 Twilight (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 United (Star Trek: Enterprise)
 Unity (Star Trek: Voyager)
 Voyager (video game)
 We'll Always Have Paris (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 When the Bough Breaks (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
 Where No Fan Has Gone Before
 Where No Man Has Gone Before
 Where No One Has Gone Before
 World Enough and Time
 The Xindi
 Zero Hour (Star Trek: Enterprise)


Good topics


 Star Trek: Enterprise (season 4)
 Star Trek: The Next Generation (season 1)


Featured pictures


 File:Enterprise free flight.jpg
 File:The Shuttle Enterprise - GPN-2000-001363.jpg






edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Star Trek}} to the See also section of Star Trek-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Star Trek-related articles, categories and templates with {{WikiProject Star Trek}}
Join WikiProject Star Trek and list yourself as a Participant.
Rate the Unassessed Star Trek articles in the Star Trek WikiProject.
Stubs: Help expand Category:Star Trek stubs








edit  
Related portals




Animation portal
Astronomy portal
Comics portal
Film in the United States portal
Literature portal
Music portal
Television portal
Science fiction portal
Space portal
Speculative fiction portal
Video games portal





What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






edit  
Star Trek on other WikiMedia Projects




Star Trek on Wikibooks 
Star Trek on Wikimedia Commons
Star Trek on Wikinews 
Star Trek on Wikiquote 
Star Trek on Wikisource 
Star Trek on Wiktionary 


Manuals and books
Images and media
News
Quotations
Texts
Definitions









































 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Star_Trek&oldid=701253067"					
Categories: Star Trek portalTelevision portalsScience fiction portalsStar TrekHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


ČeštinaFrançaisItalianoMagyarBahasa MelayuRomânăРусскийSvenska中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 23 January 2016, at 12:56.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.500","walltime":"0.680","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3172,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":197875,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":73846,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  469.679      1 -total"," 38.85%  182.457      1 Portal:Star_Trek/Quality_content"," 37.05%  174.001      5 Template:Columns-list"," 33.40%  156.883    175 Template:Icon"," 29.50%  138.565      5 Template:Random_portal_component","  8.33%   39.132      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.75%   36.422      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.98%   32.798      1 Portal:Star_Trek/Selected_article/Layout","  6.65%   31.219      2 Template:Convert","  6.62%   31.075      1 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.209","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5886891,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1271","timestamp":"20170207005643","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":784,"wgHostname":"mw1271"});});
