 







Portal:Rugby union

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Rugby Union Portal



Rugby union – commonly referred to as just rugby, or union, and in New Zealand occasionally as football or footy – is a code of football. Rugby union is a contact sport played by teams with fifteen players. The name is derived from the name of the game's original governing body, the Rugby Football Union, with the suffix union used to differentiate it from other codes of rugby football. The game developed from the variant of football at played Rugby school in England. The crucial differences from association football are that in rugby the ball is a prolate spheroid instead of a sphere, and that the players are allowed to pick the ball up and run with it. The players are also allowed to throw the ball from player to player, but are not allowed to throw it forward – the ball must only be passed sideways or backward.
The game has established itself as a major global sport, and is especially popular in New Zealand, Fiji, Tonga, Samoa, Wales, England, Ireland, Scotland, France, Australia, Argentina and South Africa. Rugby is also gaining popularity in Italy, which was accepted into the Six Nations Championship in 2000, and Japan. Rugby is the most popular team sport in Georgia and is popular in Romania, Namibia, the United States of America and Canada.
More about Rugby union...



View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Article of the month





Invictus is a 2009 biographical drama film based on Nelson Mandela's life during the 1995 Rugby World Cup in South Africa. Directed by Clint Eastwood, the film stars Morgan Freeman as South African President Mandela, and Matt Damon (pictured) as François Pienaar, the South African captain. The story is based on the John Carlin book Playing the Enemy: Nelson Mandela and the Game That Changed a Nation.
While Mandela attends a game of the Springboks, the country's rugby union team. Blacks in the stadium cheer against their home squad, as the Springboks (their history, players and even their colours) represent prejudice and apartheid in their mind. Knowing that South Africa is set to host the 1995 Rugby World Cup in one year's time, Mandela convinces the South African rugby board to keep the Springbok team, name and colours the same. He then meets with Springboks captain François Pienaar (Matt Damon). Though Mandela never verbalizes his true meaning during their meeting, Pienaar understands the message below the surface: if the Springboks can gain the support of black South Africans and succeed in the upcoming World Cup, the country will be unified and inspired. Mandela also shares with Pienaar that a poem, Invictus, had been inspiring to him during his time in prison, helping him to "stand when all he wanted to do was lie down". (More...)
More articles...




edit  
Recent news



21 March 2015 : Ireland win 2015 Six Nations Championship
2 August 2014: The NSW Waratahs win the 2014 Super Rugby title for the first time after defeating 7-time champions, Crusaders 33-32.
27 July 2014: The South Africa sevens team wins gold at the 2014 Commonwealth Games after defeating reigning champion, New Zealand in the final.
28 June 2014: Fiji defeat the Cook Islands to qualify for the 2015 Rugby World Cup.
25 May 2014: Japan win the 2014 Asian Five Nations to qualify for 2015 Rugby World Cup.
24 May 2014: Toulon defeat Saracens 23–6 in the final of the 2013–14 Heineken Cup.
17 May 2014: New Zealand win the '2013–14 IRB Women's Sevens World Series





edit  
Did you know...






... that the iconic guerilla Che Guevara (pictured) played fly-half for Club Universitario de Buenos Aires and edited a rugby fanzine?
... that women's rugby union dates back to at least 1884, possibly earlier?
... that Alfred Clunies-Ross was the first non-white rugby international, and played for Scotland in the first ever rugby international?
... that snow rugby is played in many parts of the world including Afghanistan?
... that Richard Summers, Edward Peake, Godfrey Darbishire and Richard Williams were all single cap Wales rugby union players after the team was humiliated by England in its first international match
... that rugby union footballer David Gage played in 68 of 74 matches played by the 1888–89 New Zealand Native team during their tour of the British Isles?
... that Stephen Fry was an engineer and aspiring jazz pianist before he captained South Africa's rugby team against the British Lions?
... that the English actor Nick Frost known for Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz, Paul, Attack the Block etc used to play for Barking Rugby Football Club?





edit  
Selected picture






The All Blacks performing the haka Ka Mate before a match against France at Stade de France. Photo credit: Sonya & Jason Hills

More pictures...



edit  
Things you can do


The current Collaboration of the fortnight is None



Stub articles needing expansion : Jimmy Duncan • Ian Kirkpatrick • Germany national rugby union team • Billy Wallace • Australian Rugby Union • South American Jaguars • Georgia Championship • Vodacom Cup • England Saxons • More...








edit  
Selected quote


The whole point of rugby is that it is, first and foremost, a state of mind, a spirit.
—Jean-Pierre Rives
More quotes...



edit  
Selected biography



David "Darkie" Bedell-Sivright (1880 – 1915) was a rugby union forward who captained both Scotland and the British Isles. Educated at Fettes College, Bedell-Sivright studied at Cambridge University and played for them in four Varsity Matches. He was selected for Scotland in 1900, and after playing in all of Scotland's Home Nations Championship matches between 1901 and 1903, he toured South Africa with the British Isles side in 1903. He played 12 matches, but did not play any test matches due to injury. The next year Bedell-Sivright was appointed captain for the British Isles team that toured Australia and New Zealand. Due to a broken leg he played only one test on tour. During the tour Bedell-Sivright pulled the British team from the field for after disputing the referee's decision to send-off teammate Denys Dobson. Eventually Bedell-Sivright allowed his side to resume play, but without Dobson. Bedell-Sivright briefly settled in Australia, before returning to Scotland to study medicine. He captained his country against the touring New Zealanders in 1905, and in 1906 helped Scotland defeat South Africa. A surgeon by profession, he joined the Royal Navy during the First World War, and died on active service during the Gallipoli Campaign. Bedell-Sivright was an aggressive and hard player, as well as a ferocious competitor. He has been inducted into the Scottish Rugby and IRB Halls of Fame.
More biographies...



edit  
Featured content



Articles 

 Arthur Gould
 All Blacks
 Crusaders
 Thomas Ellison
 England national rugby union team
 France national rugby union team
 Rugby World Cup
 Waisale Serevi
 Wales national rugby union team

Lists 

 List of 1888–89 New Zealand Native football team matches
 Tri Nations Series champions




edit  
Categories




▼ Rugby union


► Rugby union by city



► Rugby union by continent



► Rugby union by country



► Rugby union competitions



► Rugby union equipment



► Rugby union governing bodies



► History of rugby union



► Rugby union images



► Rugby union-related lists



► Rugby union media



► Rugby union museums and halls of fame



► Rugby union organisations



► Rugby union people



► Rugby union rivalries



► Rugby union tours



► Rugby union stadiums



► Rugby union teams



► Rugby union terminology



► Rugby union trophies and awards



► Variations of rugby union



► Rugby union stubs









edit  
WikiProjects









Rugby union • Rugby league • Sports • Biography sports and games










edit  
Main topics




History
History of rugby union • History of the Rugby World Cup


Terminology
Try • Scrum • Substitute • First team • Tackle • Touch • Line-out • Free kick • Offside • Penalty • Testimonial match • Local derby


Rules
Offside • Foul • Goal kick • Experimental Law Variations • Penalty • Extra time


Positions
Prop • Hooker • Lock • Number 8 • Flanker • Scrum Half • Fly-half • Centre • Wing • Fullback


Governing bodies
World Rugby • Rugby Africa • Asia Rugby • Oceania Rugby • Rugby Europe • Rugby Americas North • Sudamérica Rugby


Competitions
World Cup •  World Cup Sevens •  U-19 World Championship •  U-21 World Championship •  Africa Cup •  Asian Five Nations •  Churchill Cup •  European Nations Cup •  Four Nations •  IRB Nations Cup •  Pacific Nations Cup •  Pan American •  Sevens World Series •  Six Nations •  Super Cup •  Tri Nations






edit  
Related portals
















Sports and Games
Rugby
Rugby League






edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Rugby union on Wikinews    
Rugby union on Wikiquote    
Rugby union on Wikitionary    
Rugby union on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Definitions
Images & Media





















edit  
Sports portals





 Sports
 American football
 Asian Games
 Association football
 Association football (women's)
 Athletics
 Australian rules
 Badminton
 Baseball
 Basketball
 Boxing
 Canadian football
 Canadian sports
 Chess
 College football
 Commonwealth Games
 Cricket
 Cycling
 Fencing
 Figure skating
 Fishing
 Gaelic games
 Golf
 Gymnastics
 Ice hockey
 Handball
 Horse racing
 Martial arts
 Motorsport
 Olympics
 Paralympics
 Rugby league
 Rugby union
 Sailing
 Snooker
 Swimming
 Tennis
 Water sports
 Wrestling








What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Rugby_union&oldid=673237264"					
Categories: Rugby unionRugby portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoქართულიPortuguêsРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 27 July 2015, at 01:34.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.180","walltime":"0.393","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1843,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":73590,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6045,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  241.700      1 -total"," 41.90%  101.276      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.99%   48.311      1 Portal:Rugby_union/Categories","  9.70%   23.445      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.51%   20.558      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.23%   15.068      1 Template:Category_handler","  5.61%   13.566     12 Portal:Rugby_union/box-header","  5.61%   13.563     15 Template:Box-header","  5.41%   13.080      1 Template:Purge","  3.89%    9.390      1 Template:Sports_portals_browsebar"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.027","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":957883,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1281","timestamp":"20170211113435","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":56,"wgHostname":"mw1220"});});
