 







Portal:Textile arts

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Textile arts Portal



The textile arts are those arts and crafts that use plant, animal, or synthetic fibers to construct practical or decorative objects. Textiles cover the human body to protect it from the elements and to send social cues to other people. Textiles are used to store, secure, and protect possessions, and to soften, insulate, and decorate living spaces and surfaces.
The word textile is from Latin texere which means "to weave", "to braid" or "to construct". The simplest textile art is felting, in which animal fibers are matted together using heat and moisture. Most textile arts begin with twisting or spinning and plying fibers to make yarn (called thread when it is very fine and rope when it is very heavy). Yarn can then be knotted, looped, braided, knitted or woven to make flexible fabric or cloth, and cloth can be used to make clothing and soft furnishings. All of these items – felt, yarn, fabric, and finished objects – are referred to as textiles.
Textiles have been a fundamental part of human life since the beginning of civilization. The history of textile arts is also the history of international trade. Tyrian purple dye was an important trade good in the ancient Mediterranean. The Silk Road brought Chinese silk to India, Africa, and Europe. Tastes for imported luxury fabrics led to sumptuary laws during the Middle Ages and Renaissance. The industrial revolution was a revolution of textiles technology: cotton gin, the spinning jenny, and the power loom mechanized production and led to the Luddite rebellion.


More about Textile arts...







View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Selected picture








Credit: William-Adolphe Bouguereau



Spinning fiber to make yarn using a distaff and drop spindle is a craft that remained essentially unchanged from the Neolithic to the nineteenth century.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected biography



Emil Rieve (June 8, 1892 – January 24, 1975) was a Polish American labor leader. He was president of the Textile Workers Union of America (TWUA) from 1939 to 1956, a vice president of the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) from 1939 to 1955, and a vice president of the AFL-CIO from 1955 to 1960. Emil Rieve was born in Poland and moved to Pennsylvania as a child. He left school early and first became a union member at age fifteen, quickly rising within the union hierarchy. He organized his first strike in 1930 in Reading, Pennsylvania. His aggressive drives to unionize the region's textile workers and achieve union recognition led to the Reading Formula of 1933 in negotiatin with the National Labor Board, a precedent which resolved large numbers of other labor disputes. Rieve was a major figure in the unsuccessful textile workers strike of 1934. When the Congress of Industrial Organizations formed the following year, Rieve received international recognition for his efforts to avoid a rift with the American Federation of Labor. In 1937 Rieve pioneered a successful sit-down strike of 50,000 textile workers that resulted in wage increases. He became acting chairman of the Textile Workers Organizing Committee in 1938 and organized the Textile Workers Union of America in 1939. The union was quite strong under Rieve's stewardship and he played a role in the merger of the AFL with the CIO in 1952.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that samite was a luxurious and heavy silk fabric worn in the Middle Ages, and famously by Tennyson's Lady of the Lake (pictured)?
... that torchon lace is one of the oldest bobbin laces and has strictly geometric patterns?
... that Bucks point lace is a bobbin lace from the East Midlands in England with both floral and geometric designs?




...Archive/Nominations



More...









edit  
Selected article



Weaving is an ancient textile art and craft that involves placing two sets of threads or yarn called the warp and weft of the loom and turning them into cloth. This cloth can be plain (in one color or a simple pattern), or it can be woven in decorative or artistic designs, including tapestries. The majority of commercial fabrics, in the West, are woven on computer-controlled Jacquard looms. In the past, simpler fabrics were woven on other dobby looms and the Jacquard harness adaptation was reserved for more complex patterns. Some believe the efficiency of the Jacquard loom, and the Jacquard weaving process makes it more economical for mills to use them to weave all of their fabrics, regardless of the complexity of the design. However, an industrialist weaving large runs of simple plain weave fabric may need to be convinced of the logic of investing in Jacquard machines, when a much lower cost loom would suffice. Handweaving, along with hand spinning, is a popular craft. Weavers use wooden looms to create rugs, fabrics, and tapestries. Fabric in which the warp and/or weft is tie-dyed before weaving is called ikat. Fabric decorated using a wax resist method is called batik. Satin weaves, twill weaves, and plain weaves are the 3 basic types of weaving by which the majority of woven products are formed.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Textile arts


► Textile arts by region



► Textile artists



► Batik



► Beadwork



► Buttons



► Glossaries of textile arts



► Ikat



► Indigenous textile art of the Americas



► Lace



► Needlework



► Quilting



► Ropework



► Rugs and carpets



► Sewing



► Spinning



► Tapestries



► Textile design



► Textile printing



► Textiles in mythology and folklore



► Thangkas



► Wearable art



► Weaving



► Yarn












edit  
WikiProjects



Parent project

Wikipedia:WikiProject Arts


Main project

Textile Arts WikiProject

Participants
Related projects

WikiProject Fashion  •  WikiProject Knots  •  WikiProject Sculpture  •  WikiProject Visual arts

What are WikiProjects?









edit  
Selected quote







The King's colours were white and black, which he always wore in honour of the Duchess of Valentinois, who was a widow. The Duke of Ferrara and his retinue had yellow and red. Monsieur de Guise's carnation and white. It was not known at first for what reason he wore those colours, but it was soon remembered that they were the colours of a beautiful young lady whom he had been in love with, while she was a maid, and whom he yet loved though he durst not show it. The Duke de Nemours had yellow and black; why he had them could not be found out: Madam de Cleves only knew the reason of it; she remembered to have said before him she loved yellow, and that she was sorry her complexion did not suit that colour. As for the Duke, he thought he might take that colour without any indiscretion, since not being worn by Madam de Cleves it could not be suspected to be hers.
— Marie-Madeleine Pioche de la Vergne, comtesse de la Fayette, La Princesse de Clèves







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Quality content



Featured articles


 Bronwyn Bancroft
 Mary, Queen of Scots


Good articles


 Batik
 English embroidery
 History of silk
 Knitta Please
 William Morris
 Natural dye
 Navajo weaving
 Sprang









edit  
Main topics


Textile arts

Fundamentals: • Crochet • Embroidery • Knitting • Lace • Needlework • Sewing • Spinning • Textile • Weaving • Yarn
Additional topics: Beadwork • Carpet • Clothing • Dyeing • Felt • Fiber • History of clothing and textiles • Linen • Macramé • Patchwork • Quilting • Rug making • Sewing needle • Tapestry • Timeline of clothing and textiles technology • Traditional rug hooking • Wool






edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : Japanese embroidery, Care label (or laundry tag), Crocodile leather, Argentella, Battenberg (lace) (see Ostrich leather for example)
Assess : Rate unassessed articles for quality and importance
Cleanup : Tassel, Burlap, or One of the articles in our cleanup list
Copyedit : History of knitting, Drawn thread work
Expand : History of textiles and clothing, Casting on (knitting)
Photo : Hairpin lace, Point de Gaze, Buratto, Youghal lace, Hollie Point
Stubs : Afghan blanket, Emilie Bach, Candlewicking, Dip stitch (knitting), Elongated stitch (knitting), More stubs...
Verify : Clothing, Ply, Bobbinet, Braid, Canvas, Cardigan (sweater), Cotton-spinning machinery, Crocheted lace, Damask, Distaff, Dobby loom, Drawn thread work, Dyeing, Hemline, Ikat, Lace, Natural fiber, Neckline, Oilskin, Overlock, Machine embroidery
Other : Help find and upload Requested pictures

Place the {{WikiProject Textile Arts}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.
Place the {{Portal|Textile arts}} portal template in the See also section of associated articles.
Improve a top priority textile arts article.
Original research removal: Clothing, History of knitting













edit  
Related portals










Arts
Culture
Fashion
Visual arts








edit  
Associated Wikimedia






Textile Arts on Wikinews    
Textile Arts on Wikiquote    
Textile Arts on Wikibooks    
Textile Arts on Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Images

























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Textile_arts&oldid=649231700"					
Categories: Textile artsTextile arts portalArts portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:30.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.236","walltime":"0.447","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1900,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":88845,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":15502,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  327.593      1 -total"," 46.51%  152.360      5 Template:Random_portal_component","  8.73%   28.610      1 Portal:Textile_Arts/Selected_biography/Layout","  8.64%   28.293      1 Portal:Textile_arts/Quality_content","  7.88%   25.801      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.89%   22.576      2 Template:Columns-list","  6.88%   22.530      1 Template:Top_icon","  5.32%   17.414      1 Template:Purge","  4.97%   16.283      1 Template:Category_handler","  4.76%   15.593      1 Portal:Textile_Arts/Selected_picture/Layout"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.067","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1503578,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1187","timestamp":"20170206190921","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":555,"wgHostname":"mw1187"});});
