 







Portal:Theatre

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Theatre Portal



Theatre (Greek "theatron"), enjoys the distinction of two spellings: in British English, "theatre" and in American English, "theater". There is no technical distinction between the meanings of the two spellings, however most theatre artists prefer the English spelling because it creates a historical nod to the ancient Greek term theatron. Some also use the American spelling to designate a theatre building and the English term to reference the art itself, as in the "art of theatre."
Theatre is that branch of the performing arts concerned with the creation of stories or narratives for (or with) an audience using combinations of acting, speech, gesture, music, dance, object manipulation, sound and spectacle — indeed, any one or more elements of the other performing arts. In addition to standard narrative dialogue style, theatre takes such forms as opera, musicals, ballet, mime, kabuki, classical Indian dance, Chinese opera, mummers' plays, and pantomime.


More about Theatre...





View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Featured article



Beijing opera is a form of traditional Chinese theatre which combines music, vocal performance, mime, dance, and acrobatics. It arose in the late 18th century and became fully developed and recognized by the mid-19th century. The form was extremely popular in the Qing Dynasty court and has come to be regarded as one of the cultural treasures of China. Major performance troupes are based in Beijing and Tianjin in the north, and Shanghai in the south. The art form is also enjoyed in Taiwan, and has spread to other countries such as the United States and Japan. Beijing opera features four main types of performers. Performing troupes often have several of each variety, as well as numerous secondary and tertiary performers. With their elaborate and colorful costumes, performers are the only focal points on Beijing opera's characteristically sparse stage. They utilize the skills of speech, song, dance, and combat in movements that are symbolic and suggestive, rather than realistic. Above all else, the skill of performers is evaluated according to the beauty of their movements.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured picture








Credit: Daniel Bachler



Two Geisha conversing near the Golden Temple in Kyoto, Japan. Parts of the kimono and the special make-up are clearly visible.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






February 1972 – Red Detachment of Women, one of the eight model plays, was performed for Nixon on his trip to China
3 February 1869 – Edwin Booth's Booth's Theatre opened with Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet
19 February 1704 – Ichikawa Danjūrō I (pictured), an early and influential kabuki actor, was stabbed and killed onstage by fellow actor Ikushima Hanroku
24 February 1607 – L'Orfeo by Claudio Monteverdi, which premiered over four hundred years ago, is the earliest operatic work that is still performed today
27 February 1877 – Premiere of Swan Lake by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky received poor reviews

More anniversaries...




edit  
News




October 10: Wikinews visits haunted attraction 'Doc Wilkes House of Horrors'
April 8: Western Australian school performance undisrupted by WBC
March 29: Australian school in Westboro's sights
September 12: Haunted attractions in Texas prepare for 2013 Halloween season

Theatre on Wikinews






edit  
Featured biography


Dmitri Shostakovich was a Russian composer of the Soviet period. He is best known for his satirical opera The Nose, (based on the story by Gogol) and his cycles of symphonies and string quartets, 15 of each. Since his death in 1975, reports about his true personal opinions about life in the USSR have been controversial. While he outwardly conformed with the state and was a public face for state-crafted propaganda, it is now widely known that he deeply disliked the Soviet regime —a view confirmed by his family, by private letters to Isaak Glikman, and the satirical cantata "Anti-formalist Rayok", which ridiculed the "anti-formalism" campaign in Soviet arts and was known only to his closest friends until after his death.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that the Chatham Garden Theatre in New York City (pictured) went from haven for prostitution to Presbyterian chapel in the span of one year?
... that Ted Mack auditioned contestants for the Original Amateur Hour in the 400-seat theatre at Irvington, New York's village hall?
... that Nobile Teatro di San Giacomo di Corfù, founded in 1720, was the first modern opera theatre in Greece?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Theatre


► Theatre by city



► Theatre by country



► Theatre by culture



► Theatre by date



► History of theatre



► Parts of a theatre



► Theatre-related lists



► Acting



► Alternative theatre



► Amateur theatre



► Theatre awards



► Theatre characters



► Christmas onstage



► Comedians



► Theatre controversies



► Costumes



► Theatre criticism



► Theatre databases



► Drama



► Theatre festivals



► Films set in a theatre



► Fringe theatre



► Theatrical genres



► Theatre logos



► Theatre museums



► Theatrical occupations



► Theatrical organizations



► Theatre patrons



► Theatre people



► Plays



► Theatre production companies



► Puppet theaters



► Theatre soundtracks



► Stage managers



► Stagecraft



► Street theatre



► Theatre archives



► Theatre studies



► Theatres



► Touring theatre



► Works about theatre



► Theatre stubs










edit  
WikiProjects



Main project

Theatre


Descendant projects

Elizabethan Theatre • New York Theatre • Musical Theatre

Sister projects

Dance • Ballet • Opera • Gilbert and Sullivan • Richard Wagner • Magic • Stagecraft • Drum Corps • Literature • Shakespeare • Circus

What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected quote







Acting is standing up naked and turning around slowly.
— Rosalind Russell







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Allah jang Palsoe
 The Author's Farce
 Honoré de Balzac
 John Barrymore
 Anton Chekhov
 Colley Cibber
 The Country Wife
 Noël Coward
 Creatures of Impulse
 Henry Edwards (entomologist)
 George Formby
 John Gielgud
 Augusta, Lady Gregory
 Joseph Grimaldi
 Hamlet
 Harris Theater (Chicago)
 Her Majesty's Theatre
 Michael Hordern
 Vivien Leigh
 Night of January 16th
 Laurence Olivier
 Peking opera
 Harold Pinter
 Proserpine (play)
 The Relapse
 Restoration spectacular
 Ralph Richardson
 Romeo and Juliet
 William Shakespeare
 George Bernard Shaw
 Sebastian Shaw (actor)
 South Pacific (musical)
 John Millington Synge
 Theatre Royal, Drury Lane
 A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant
 Nathaniel Parker Willis
 W. B. Yeats


Featured lists


 Alastair Sim on stage and screen
 Ethel Barrymore on stage, screen and radio
 Lionel Barrymore on stage, screen and radio
 Bernard Lee on stage and screen
 Ian Carmichael on stage, screen and radio
 Carry On series on screen and stage
 David Niven on screen, stage, radio, record and in print
 George Formby on screen, stage, record and radio
 Hattie Jacques on stage, radio, screen and record
 John Barrymore on stage, screen and radio
 John Gielgud, roles and awards
 John Le Mesurier on stage, radio, screen and record
 Laurence Olivier on stage and screen
 Ralph Richardson, roles and awards
 Songs, sketches and monologues of Dan Leno
 Terry-Thomas on screen, radio, stage and record
 Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play
 Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Play


Good articles


 5th Avenue Theatre
 Actor Rebellion of 1733
 Blackrock (play)
 The Blue Flame (play)
 Robert Boulter
 Sian Breckin
 Bristol Old Vic
 Characters of Shakespear's Plays
 Patrice Chéreau
 Chicago Theatre
 Chose Promise
 Culture of the Song dynasty
 Benedict Cumberbatch
 Ben Daniels
 The Demi-Virgin
 Disgraced
 Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde (play)
 Casey Donovan (actor)
 Fred Dyer
 Edward Scissorhands (dance)
 Laurence Fox
 Gilbert and Sullivan
 Cary Grant
 Henry Fielding's early plays
 The Importance of Being Earnest
 The Indian Princess (play)
 Irene (play)
 Journey Through the Impossible
 Kami, Perempuan
 Deborah Kerr
 Michael Kidd
 Mihail Kogălniceanu
 Lincoln Theatre (Washington, D.C.)
 Willy Loman
 Love, Loss, and What I Wore
 Love in Several Masques
 Lady Macbeth
 Ned Manning
 Joan McCracken
 Ian McKellen
 Merle Reskin Theatre
 Midas (Shelley play)
 Noh
 Oregon Theatre
 Ioan Gyuri Pascu
 The Philaletheis Society
 Pill Hill (play)
 The Plays of William Shakespeare
 Portland Center Stage
 Richard Roma
 Rosendale Theatre
 She Has a Name
 Sophocles
 Konstantin Stanislavski
 The Tempest
 Theatre Royal, Bath
 Tristan Tzara
 Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike
 Wales Millennium Centre
 Oscar Wilde
 Xin Fengxia


Featured pictures







File:A Wilde time 3.jpg









File:Chicago Theatre blend.jpg









edit  
Topics


Theatre
History: Sanskrit Plays • Natya Shastra • Natya Shastra of Bharata • Koodiyattam • Bhasa • Kālidāsa • Kathakali • Bhavabhuti • Harsha • Chinese theatre • Cantonese Opera • Beijing Opera • Ramakien • Noh • Bunraku • Kabuki • Butoh • Theatre of Ancient Greece • Theatre of ancient Rome • Medieval theatre • Commedia dell'Arte • English Renaissance theatre • Restoration comedy • Restoration spectacular • Neoclassicism • Twentieth century theatre

Types: Comedy • Drama • Musical theatre • Hip-Hop theater
Philosophy: Aristotle • Poetics • Konstantin Stanislavski • Antonin Artaud • Bertolt Brecht • Orson Welles • Peter Brook • Jerzy Grotowski • Meisner technique • Stanislavsky System • Method acting • Presentational acting
Organization: Community theatre • Dinner theatre • Fringe theatre • Summer stock theatre • Regional theatre • Off-Off-Broadway • Off-Broadway • Off West End • Broadway theatre • West End theatre
Unions: Actors' Equity Association • Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers • International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees
Awards: Back Stage West Garland Awards • Drama Desk Award • Evening Standard Awards • Green Room Award • Hans-Reinhart-Ring • Helpmann Award • Joseph Jefferson Award • Laurence Olivier Awards • London Critics' Circle Theatre Awards • Lucille Lortel Award • Manchester Evening News • Matilda Award • New York Innovative Theatre Awards • Molière Award • Obie Award • Ovation Awards • Sangeet Natak Academy Award • Theatre Pasta Theatre Awards • Tony Award
Stagecraft: Theatre director • Playwright • Actor • Production team • Set designer • Lighting designer • Costume designer • Sound design • Dramaturg • Stage management • Production manager • Technical theatre




edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Theatre}} to the See also section of Theatre-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Theatre-related articles, categories and templates with {{WikiProject Theatre}} (needed to generate article alerts).
Join WikiProject Theatre and list yourself as a Participant.
Attention: A list of articles needing immediate attention is available.
Rate the Unassessed Theatre articles in the Theatre WikiProject.
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability.
References: Add references to Unreferenced BLPs.
Requested articles: Requested articles on Theatre and stage.
Stubs: Help expand United States theatre stubs, European theatre stubs, Play stubs, Theatre (structure) stubs, Theatrical people stubs, and more...






Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.





edit  
Subportals















Gilbert and Sullivan
Musical Theatre
Shakespeare






edit  
Related portals





Arts



Books



Comedy



Dance



Film



Literature



Music



Opera



Poetry



Television



Visual arts



Writing






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Theatre on  Wikinews 
Theatre on  Wikiquote 
Theatre on  Wikibooks 
Theatre on  Wikisource 
Theatre on  Wiktionary 
Theatre on  Wikiversity 
Theatre on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media






























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Theatre&oldid=649199892"					
Categories: Theatre portalTheatreArts portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikibooksWikisource 



Languages


العربيةAzərbaycancaDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolFrançaisItalianoქართულიМакедонски日本語PortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSlovenčinaСрпски / srpskiТатарча/tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 07:41.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.456","walltime":"0.610","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3043,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":159089,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":47978,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  380.603      1 -total"," 35.29%  134.325      1 Portal:Theatre/Featured_content"," 31.85%  121.214      3 Template:Columns-list"," 28.03%  106.686    116 Template:Icon"," 22.06%   83.943      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 17.23%   65.592      1 Portal:Theatre/Related_portals"," 16.84%   64.088      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 13.80%   52.528     12 Template:Related_portal_item"," 13.05%   49.670     12 Template:Portal_image","  7.08%   26.950      1 Template:Featured_portal"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.152","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2564581,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1179","timestamp":"20170211180442","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":708,"wgHostname":"mw1179"});});
