 







Portal:Visual arts

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





THE VISUAL ARTS PORTAL



edit  watch  
Introduction



Visual arts is a class of art forms focusing on the creation of works that are primarily visual in nature, such as painting, drawing, illustration, architecture, photography, graphic design, printmaking, and filmmaking. Works that involve moulding or modeling, such as sculpture, public art, and ceramics, are more narrowly referred to as plastic arts.
The visual arts are distinguished from the performing arts, language arts, culinary arts and other such classes of artwork, but those boundaries are not well defined. Many artistic endeavors combine aspects of visual arts with one or more non-visual art forms, such as music or spoken word.
The current use of the phrase "visual arts" includes fine arts as well as crafts, but this was not always the case. Prior to the Arts and Crafts movement in Britain and elsewhere at the turn of the 20th century, "visual artist" referred to a person working in the fine arts (such as painting, sculpture, or printmaking) and not the handicraft, craft, or applied art disciplines.
The scope of study and appreciation of visual arts spans the globe, and reaches through time back to people drawing on stone walls. All societies have embellished their tools and toys with more visual interest than is functionally necessary.


More about visual arts...









View new selected content below (purge)



edit  watch  
Selected image








Credit: Mariano Cecowski
Hand paintings at the Cueva de las Manos on Río Pinturas in Santa Cruz Province, Argentina. These were made by the indigenous inhabitants (possibly forefathers of the Tehuelches) some 9,000 years ago.

More selected pictures... 





edit  watch  
Selected article







Hoysala architecture is the distinctive building style developed under the rule of the Hoysala Empire in the region historically known as Karnata, today's Karnataka, India, between the 11th and the 14th centuries. Hoysala influence was at its peak in the 13th century, when it dominated the Southern Deccan Plateau region. Large and small temples built during this era remain as examples of the Hoysala architectural style, including the Chennakesava Temple at Belur, the Hoysaleswara Temple at Halebidu, and the Kesava Temple at Somanathapura. Other examples of fine Hoysala craftmanship are the temples at Belavadi, Amrithapura, and Nuggehalli. Study of the Hoysala architectural style has revealed a negligible Indo-Aryan influence while the impact of Southern Indian style is more distinct.
The vigorous temple building activity of the Hoysala Empire was due to the social, cultural and political events of the period. The stylistic transfomation of the Karnata temple building tradition reflected religious trends popularized by the Vaishnava and Virashaiva philosophers as well as the growing military prowess of the Hoysala kings who desired to surpass their Western Chalukya overlords in artistic achievement.



More selected articles...
Read more...




edit  watch  
Selected quote





“
The creative act is not performed by the artist alone; the spectator brings the work in contact with the external world by deciphering and interpreting its inner qualifications and thus adds his contribution to the creative act.
”



— Marcel Duchamp, The Creative Act (1957)







More selected quotes...








edit  watch  
Selected biography



El Lissitzky was a Russian artist, designer, photographer, teacher, typographer, and architect. He was one of the most important figures of the Russian avant-garde, helping develop suprematism with his friend and mentor, Kazimir Malevich, and designed numerous exhibition displays and propaganda works for the former Soviet Union. His work greatly influenced the Bauhaus, Constructivist, and De Stijl movements and experimented with production techniques and stylistic devices that would go on to dominate 20th century graphic design. Lissitzky's entire career was laced with the belief that the artist could be an agent for change, later summarised with his edict, "das zielbewußte Schaffen" (The task-oriented creation). In 1941 he produced one of his last known works — a Soviet propaganda poster rallying the people to construct more tanks for the fight against Nazi Germany.



...Read more



More selected biographies...










edit  watch  
Major topics




Types of visual art: Architecture • Art intervention • Ceramic art • Computer art • Drawing  • Fashion  • Film • Installation art • Land art • Mixed media • Painting • Performance art • Photography • Printmaking • Sculpture
Art history: Pre-historic art • Ancient art • Art of Ancient Egypt • Art in Ancient Greece • Minoan pottery • Scythian art • Roman art • Women artists
Western art periods and movements: Medieval art • Gothic art • Renaissance • Mannerism • Baroque • Rococo • Neoclassicism • Romanticism • Realism • Modern Art • Impressionism • Symbolism • Fauvism • Proto-Cubism&nb;• Cubism • Futurism • Dada • Art Deco • Surrealism • Abstract Expressionism • Lyrical abstraction • Contemporary Art • Postmodern art visual arts.
Eastern and Middle Eastern art: Buddhist art • Chinese art • Islamic art • Japanese art • Laotian art • Thai art • Tibetan art
Lists: Architects • Art movements • Art periods • Painters • Printmakers • Sculptors • Statues
Lists of basic topics: Visual arts • Architecture • Film • Painting • Photography • Sculpture









edit  watch  
Did you know...




... that Bathsheba at Her Bath has been called "Rembrandt's greatest painting of the nude"?
...that Ananthabhadram, a film by Indian director Santhosh Sivan, was inspired by classical Kathakali dancing and paintings of Raja Ravi Varma?
...that the Royal Fort in Bristol was built with façades in Baroque, Palladian and Rococo styles because it was a compromise between the designs of three different architects?
...that Lil' Pimp was the first feature-length film to be created entirely with Macromedia Flash animation?
...that the world's tallest statue of Hindu god Lord Shiva (pictured) is located in Murudeshwara, a coastal town in Karnataka, India?
...that the Mona Lisa has no eyebrows?
...that Henri Le Secq was a founding member of the short-lived, first ever photographic organization Société héliographique?





Did you also know...











edit  watch  
WikiProjects


Arts | Animation | Aesthetics | Architecture | Comics (Anime and manga, Comic strips, Webcomics) | Film | Graffiti | Photography | Public art | Textile arts | Visual arts | Women artists








edit  watch  
Categories



Visual arts
Architecture | Ceramic art | Comics | Crafts | Design | Drawing | Illustration | Film | Glass | Graphic design | Industrial design | Landscape architecture | Multimedia | Painting | Photography | Pottery | Printmaking | Public art | Sculpture | Typography | Mosaic



Artists | Art awards | Artist collectives | Art collectors | Art critics | Art curators | Art exhibitions | Art forgery | Art history | Art materials | Art schools | Artistic techniques | Conservation and restoration



Art by country | Art genres | Art movements | Women artists | Years in art





▼ Visual arts


► Art by city



► Art by country



► Art by region



► Art by subject



► Lists of visual art topics



► Art media



► Works of art



► Art by animals



► Art by religion



► Art libraries



► Art magazines



► Art movements



► Art technological sources



► Artist colonies



► Artists



► Audiovisual art



► Art awards



► Black-and-white media



► Business of visual arts



► Calligraphy



► Art collections



► Composition in visual art



► Art conferences



► Art crime



► Design



► Digital art



► Art education



► Engraving



► Art exhibitions



► Art fairs



► Art festivals in Ukraine



► Art genres



► Art history



► Art manifestos



► Art materials



► Art museums and galleries



► Visual arts occupations



► Art and design organizations



► Panorama



► Patrons of art



► Visual arts publishing companies



► Art societies



► Sociology of art



► Artistic techniques



► Art terminology



► Visual arts theory



► Visual art journals



► Walking art



► Works about visual art



► Wikipedia books on visual arts



► Art stubs













edit  watch  
Things you can do









Here are some Open Tasks :

Article requests: Art of Central America – Art of South America – Buffalo Center for Media Study – Claus Bury – Muhammad Siyah Qalam – Paint thatch – Art horse – Contemporary Art Society – Johannes Josephus Aarts – more...
Image requests: Illusionism (art) – Nōami – Étrécissements – Villa Massimo – of art and of artists
Pages needing attention: Colin McCahon – Jamaican art – Folk art – Product design – Fiestaware – Monochrome painting (was Meditative art) – Reginald Gray (artist) – Science of photography – Studio art – more...
Articles needing expansion: Art education – Art of the Crusades – Decoupage – James Turrell – American Impressionism – Crocheted lace – Sacred art – Art fabrication – Chinese painting Jamaican art – more...
Art stubs: Commission (art) – Conté – Sanguine – Post-surrealism – Verdaccio – Luminism (Impressionism) – Biomorphism – more...
Artist stubs: Frank Dobson (sculptor) – Niko Pirosmanashvili – more...
Art organization stubs: Federal Project Number One – Art colony – Not-for-profit arts organization – Arts centre – more...
Get involved in the Wikipedia Visual Arts Project.












edit  watch  
Related portals





Anime and Manga



Animation



Archaeology



Architecture



Arts



Cartoon



Color



Comics



Computer graphics



Culture



Design



Fashion



Film



Graffiti



Heraldry



Knitting



Numismatics



Origami



Philately



Photography



Television



Textile arts



Theatre



Typography









edit  watch  
Associated Wikimedia





Visual arts on Wikibooks    
Visual arts on Wikinews    
Visual arts on Wikiquote    
Visual arts on Wikisource    
Visual arts on Wikimedia Commons


Manuals & Texts
News
Quotations
Texts
Images





















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals










edit  watch  
References















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Visual_arts&oldid=658246668"					
Categories: Arts portalsWikiProject Visual artsVisual artsVisual arts portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikibooksWikisource 



Languages


العربيةAzərbaycancaCatalàDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어HrvatskiItalianoעבריתქართულიLatviešuМакедонски日本語Runa SimiРусскийSuomiУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 22 April 2015, at 11:32.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.252","walltime":"0.404","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3520,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":142411,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":14843,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  264.507      1 -total"," 29.15%   77.115      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 27.24%   72.052      1 Portal:Visual_arts/Relatedportals"," 25.86%   68.396      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 21.95%   58.064     24 Template:Related_portal_item"," 20.74%   54.849     24 Template:Portal_image"," 15.72%   41.572     13 Template:Random_box-header_subpage"," 13.52%   35.756      9 Portal:Visual_arts/box-header","  8.76%   23.178      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.23%   21.773     26 Template:Mod"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.067","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2027169,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1172","timestamp":"20170209201855","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":68,"wgHostname":"mw1262"});});
