 







Portal:Atlas

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








Main page
 
Maps



edit  
The Atlas Portal



An atlas is a collection of maps, traditionally bound into book form, but now most often found in multimedia formats. As well as geographic features and political boundaries, many often feature geopolitical, social, religious and economic statistics.
The first known book that could be called an atlas was constructed from the calculations of Claudius Ptolemy, a Greek geographer working in Alexandria circa A.D. 150. The first edition was published in Bologna in 1477 and was illustrated with a set of 27 maps, though scholars say that it is not known whether the printed maps were engraved versions of original maps made by Ptolemy, or whether they were constructed by medieval Greek scholars from Ptolemy's text.

The origin of the term atlas is a common source of misconception, perhaps because two different mythical figures named 'Atlas' are associated with mapmaking. King Atlas, a mythical King of Mauretania, was, according to legend, a wise philosopher, mathematician and astronomer who supposedly made the first celestial globe. However, the more widely known Atlas is a figure from Greek mythology.
An atlas is a collection of maps; it is typically a map of Earth or a region of Earth, but there are atlases of the other planets (and their satellites) in the Solar System. Furthermore, atlases of anatomy exist, mapping out the human body or other organisms.[1] Atlases have traditionally been bound into book form, but today many atlases are in multimedia formats. In addition to presenting geographic features and political boundaries, many atlases often feature geopolitical, social, religious and economic statistics. They also have information about the map and places in it
More about Atlases...



View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Featured map








Credit: Nichalp



Goa is India's smallest state in terms of area and the fourth smallest in terms of population. It is located on the west coast of India, in the region known as the Konkan. The state is divided into two districts: North Goa (purple shades) and South Goa (orange shades) and the districts are further divided into eleven talukas. Panaji is the state's capital, and Vasco-da-Gama (Vasco) its largest town.




Map archive...








edit  
Selected article





A weather map is used to display an overview of one or more atmospheric variables at a specific time in the free atmosphere. They are used for the analysis and display of observations and computer analyses, including forecast fields derived by computer models. Maps using isotherms show temperature gradients, which can help locate weather fronts. Isotach maps, analyzing lines of equal wind speed, on a constant pressure surface of 300 mb or 250 mb show where the jet stream is located. Two-dimensional streamlines based on wind speeds at various levels show areas of convergence and divergence in the wind field, which are helpful in determining the location of features within the wind pattern. A popular type of surface weather map is the surface weather analysis, which plots isobars to depict areas of high pressure and low pressure. Special weather maps in aviation show areas of icing and turbulence.
Article archive/Nominations...



edit  
Related portals










Geography
History
Politics
Earth sciences








edit  
Selected biography



Claudius Ptolemaeus (Greek: Κλαύδιος Πτολεμαῖος; c. 90 – c. 168), known in English as Ptolemy, was a Greek-speaking geographer, astronomer, and astrologer who lived in the Hellenistic culture of Roman Egypt. He may have been a Hellenized Egyptian but no description of his family background or physical appearance exists, though it is likely he was born in Egypt.
Ptolemy was the author of several scientific treatises, three of which have been of continuing importance to later Islamic and European science. The first is the astronomical treatise that is now known as the Almagest ("The Great Treatise"). The second is the Geography, which is a thorough discussion of the geographic knowledge of the Greco-Roman world. The third is the astrological treatise known as the Tetrabiblos ("Four books") in which he attempted to adapt horoscopic astrology to the Aristotelian natural philosophy of his day. (read more...)
Biography archive/Nominations...



edit  
Related WikiProjects






Atlas








Maps
Geography


History
Countries








Geographical coordinates










edit  
Selected quote




“
We all inherit a great deal of useless knowledge, and a great deal of misinformation and error (maps that were formerly thought to be accurate), so that there is always a portion of what we have been told that must be discarded.
”


— S. I. Hayakawa


Quote archive...



edit  
Topics



Atlas - Geography - Topography
Cartography: Cartographers - History of cartography - Ancient world maps - World maps - Compass rose - Generalization - Geographic coordinate system - Relief depiction - Scale - Terra incognita - Planetary cartography
Map projection: Azimuthal equidistant - "Butterfly" - Dymaxion - Gall–Peters - General Perspective - Goode homolosine - Mercator - Mollweide - Orthographic - Peirce quincuncial - Robinson - Sinusoidal - Stereographic
Maps: Cartogram - Estate map - Geologic map - Linguistic map - Nautical chart - Pictorial map - Reversed map - Road atlas - Thematic map - Topographic map - Weather map - Web mapping - World map
Find a map by geographic area or type





edit  
Things you can do









WikiProject: Geography
Here are some Geography related tasks you can do:

Requested Articles: Geographical feature, Glossary of geography terms, Demographics of Oceania, Regions of North America, Regions of South America, Regions of Oceania (See Regions of Africa as example) More...
Wikify/Cleanup: Geography, Philosophy of Geography, History of geography, Holarctic, Geostatistics, Kriging, Geographic Information Systems, Urbanism, Wikipedia:Requested pictures/Places, List of map-changing events by date, Valley More...
Expand: Cycle of erosion, Outer Continental Shelf More...
Improve to GA: See Category:B-Class geography articles More...
Improve to FA: Anahim hotspot, Erg (landform), Great Barrier Reef, Geyser, History of Earth, Mount Garibaldi, Palm Island, Queensland, Topic outline of geography More...
Projects: Lists of basic country topics (one for each country), List of geography topics (See List of psychology topics as an example), List of geographers











edit  
Related categories






▼ Maps


► Maps by continent



► Maps by country



► Maps by language



► Maps by source



► Atlases



► Maps of cities



► Coats of arms with maps



► Map collections



► Map companies



► Demographic maps



► Election results



► Ethnic maps



► Fictional maps



► Geologic maps



► Globes



► History maps



► Indoor positioning system



► Linguistic maps



► Military maps



► Nautical charts



► Ocean maps



► Old maps



► Railroad maps



► Map series



► Map types



► Web Map Services



► Web mapping



► World maps












edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Atlas on Wiktionary



Definitions


Atlas on Wikicommons



Images


Maps on Wikinews



News


Maps on Wikiquote



Quotations


Map on Wiktionary



Definitions


Maps on Wikisource



Texts


Maps on Wikicommons



Images









What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Atlas&oldid=649230454"					
Categories: Geography portalsHistory portalsPolitics portalsMapsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Bahasa IndonesiaМакедонскиPortuguês中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:17.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.164","walltime":"0.294","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1465,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":59222,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3194,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  194.845      1 -total"," 40.47%   78.857      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 10.76%   20.969      1 Template:Lang"," 10.63%   20.710      2 Template:Category_handler","  9.96%   19.405      1 Portal:Atlas/Related_portals","  8.46%   16.483      1 Portal:Atlas/Header","  7.54%   14.696      1 Portal:Atlas/Categories","  7.23%   14.097      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.00%   13.635     11 Template:Box-header","  6.56%   12.777      7 Portal:Atlas/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.043","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1163176,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1253","timestamp":"20170206190751","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":381,"wgHostname":"mw1253"});});
