 







Portal:Bangladesh

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






(Refresh)
The BANGLADESH PORTAL
03:00, Wednesday, February 8, 2017 (UTC) • 9:00, Wednesday February 8, 2017 (BST) • Magh 26






Main
 
Indices
 
Projects



 Done

















Bangladesh, officially the People's Republic of Bangladesh, is a country in South Asia. It is bordered by India on three sides and Myanmar to the southeast; the Bay of Bengal forms the southern coastline. Together with the Indian state of West Bengal, it comprises the ethno-linguistic region of Bengal. The name Bangladesh means "The land of Bengal" and is written in Bengali as বাংলাদেশ and pronounced [ˈbaŋlad̪eʃ]. The exact origin of the word Bangla or Bengal is unknown.
The borders of Bangladesh were set by the Partition of India in 1947, when it became the eastern wing of Pakistan (East Pakistan), separated from the western wing by 1,600 km (1,000 miles). Despite their common religion, the ethnic and linguistic gulf between the two wings was compounded by an apathetic government based in West Pakistan. This resulted in the independence of Bangladesh in 1971 after a bloody war, supported by India. The years following independence have been marked by political turmoil, with thirteen different heads of government, and at least four military coups.
The population of Bangladesh ranks seventh in the world, but its area of approximately 144,000 km2 is ranked ninety-third. It is the third largest Muslim-majority nation, but has a slightly smaller Muslim population than the Muslim minority in India. It is also one of the most densely populated countries in the world. Geographically dominated by the fertile Ganges-Brahmaputra Delta, the country has annual monsoon floods, and cyclones are frequent. Bangladesh is one of the founding members of South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), BIMSTEC, and a member of the OIC and the D-8.

 More about Bangladesh ...



{{{1}}}







Selected article

edit

Biman Bangladesh Airlines (Bengali: বিমান বাংলাদেশ) is the national airline of Bangladesh, based at Zia International Airport in Dhaka. It provides domestic as well as international service to Asia and Europe, but derives most of its revenue from flights to Osmani International Airport, Sylhet. It has Air Services Agreements with 42 countries, although it maintains flights to only 18. Until July 2007, the airlines was owned by the Government of Bangladesh; on 23 July 2007, it was transformed into Bangladesh's largest Public Limited Company by the then Caretaker government of Bangladesh.
Biman Bangladesh Airlines was established on 4 January 1972 to be Bangladesh's national airline under the Bangladesh Biman Ordinance (Presidential Order No. 126). The initiative to launch the national flag carrier, was taken by 2,500 former employees, including 10 Boeing 707 commanders and 7 other pilots, of Pakistan International Airlines, who submitted a proposal to the government on 31 December 1971 following the independence of Bangladesh. The airline was initially called Air Bangladesh International but was soon renamed Biman Bangladesh Airlines.
Initially Biman operated an internal monopoly in Bangladesh until 1996. Dogged by corruption and accidents, the airline suffers from an ageing fleet, with some of its long-haul aircraft banned for safety reasons from the US and EU member states. Annual Hajj flights, labour migrants as well as Biman's subsidiaries, form an important part of the ailing carrier's business. Biman has a 2 star ranking out of 5 by Skytrax, a United Kingdom-based consultancy. (more...)
Archive | Nominate an article...





Bangladesh News

edit

Jun 12: A 36-hour nationwide strike takes place in Bangladesh over changes to the electoral system. (Straits Times)


Jun 4: Bangladesh receives a loan from the World Bank to strengthen regional co-operation on wildlife protection. (Straits Times)


Apr 25: A court in Bangladesh clears Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus of misappropriating Norwegian aid money at a micro-finance bank he founded. (The Times of India)


Apr 11: Australian cricket player Shane Watson breaks the world record for number of sixes in a One Day International in the second match in the series against Bangladesh.


Apr 5: Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus loses his final appeal in the Supreme Court of Bangladesh against his dismissal from his own Grameen micro-finance bank; the bank thought him too old for the job. (BBC)


Apr 4: Severe thunderstorms kill 13 people in Bangladesh. (San Francisco Chronicle)

Archive of old items
Archive




Where in Bangladesh...

edit



Sitakunda is most noted for its numerous religious shrines, of Islamic, Hindu and Buddhist denominations. It also happens to be the center of world's largest remaining ship breaking industry. Do you know where in Bangladesh is Sitakunda?







Sitakunda






Sitakunda is an Upazila under Chittagong District in the Division of Chittagong, Bangladesh. It is located on the south-eastern part of the country on the shore of the Bay of Bengal.


Archive | Suggest a location...









Selected picture

edit









The Khan Mohammad Mridha Mosque on Lalbagh road is situated less than half a kilometre west of the Lalbagh Fort, in an area called Atish Khana in old Dhaka. Two Persian inscriptions, one over the central archway and the other over the central Mihrab, speak of its construction during 1704–05 AD.


Photo credit: Ragib Hasan




Archive | Nominate a picture...





Did you know...

edit





...that on the banks of Shitalakshya River, in Bangladesh, there are artistic weaving centres, where once the muslin industry flourished?


... that in 2010, Bangladesh became only the second country after Malaysia, among the developing nations, to have successfully sequenced a plant genome?


...that the haor located in north-eastern Bangladesh, is a bowl-shaped depression with such vast stretches of turbulent water that it is thought of as a sea during a monsoon?


...that in Hindu mythology, after Lakshmindara, son of Chand Sadagar, died of snakebite on his wedding night, his bride Behula accompanied his corpse on a raft floating in a river?


... that the Government of Bangladesh and the Parbatya Chattagram Jana Sanghati Samiti promulgated the Chittagong Hill Tracts Peace Accord in 1997?


... that Jhalkaribai fought with the East India Company army in disguise as Queen Laxmibai of Jhansi during the Indian Rebellion of 1857 to let the queen escape easily out of the fort?


... that Shakib Al Hasan has the most five-wicket hauls for Bangladesh in Test cricket?


...that Asif Hossain Khan, a Commonwealth Games gold medal winner for Bangladesh at the age of just 15, was brutally beaten and seriously injured by the police of his own country?


... that several secularist writers and bloggers have been hacked to death in Bangladesh since 2013 by Islamist extremists?


Archive...



Selected biography

edit

Kazi Nazrul Islam (Bengali: কাজী নজরুল ইসলাম) (25 May 1899–29 August 1976) was a Bengali poet, musician, revolutionary, and philosopher who pioneered poetic works espousing intense spiritual rebellion against orthodoxy and oppression. His poetry and nationalist activism earned him the popular title of Bidrohi Kobi (Rebel Poet). Accomplishing a large body of acclaimed works through his life, Nazrul is officially recognised as the national poet of Bangladesh and commemorated in India.
Born in a poor Muslim family, Nazrul received religious education and worked as a muezzin at a local mosque. He learned of poetry, drama, and literature while working with theatrical groups. After serving in the British Indian Army, Nazrul established himself as a journalist in Kolkata (then Calcutta). He assailed the British Raj in India and preached revolution through his poetic works, such as "Bidrohi" ("The Rebel") and "Bhangar Gaan" ("The Song of Destruction"), as well as his publication "Dhumketu" ("The Comet"). His impassioned activism in the Indian independence movement often led to his imprisonment by British authorities. While in prison, Nazrul wrote the "Rajbandir Jabanbandi" ("Deposition of a Political Prisoner") and condemned Islamic fundamentalism, orthodox traditions and bigotry in society. Exploring the life and conditions of the downtrodden masses of India, Nazrul agitated fiercely for their emancipation.
Nazrul's writings explore themes such as love, freedom, and revolution; he opposed all bigotry, including religious and gender. Throughout his career, Nazrul wrote short stories, novels, and essays but is best-known for his poems, in which he pioneered new forms such as Bengali ghazals. Nazrul wrote and composed music for his nearly 3,000 songs, collectively known as Nazrul geeti (Nazrul songs), which are widely popular today. At the age of 43 (in 1942) he began suffering from an unknown disease, losing his voice and memory. What was later diagnosed as Pick's Disease, caused Nazrul's health to decline steadily and forced him to live in isolation for many years. Invited by the Government of Bangladesh, Nazrul and his family moved to Dhaka in 1972, where he died four years later. (more...)
Archive | Nominate a biography...







Related portals

edit

Religion: Islam • Hinduism • Buddhism • Christianity
Geography: Asia • SAARC • Pakistan • India • Sri Lanka • Dhaka • Chittagong • Bengal
Arts: Architecture • Dance • Film • Literature • Music • Television • Theatre • Visual arts
Sports: Football • Cricket • Chess • Olympics • Paralympics • Bangladesh Premier League











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Shortcuts to this page: WP:BD • P:BD

Purge server cache




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Bangladesh&oldid=710191088"					
Categories: Bangladesh portalAsian portalsPortals by countryBangladeshHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাDeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoPortuguêsРусскийاردو 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 15 March 2016, at 14:13.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.160","walltime":"0.338","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1034,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":55371,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2185,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  268.941      1 -total"," 63.21%  170.002     13 Template:Random_subpage"," 22.97%   61.787      1 Portal:Bangladesh/Did_you_know"," 17.07%   45.920      1 Portal:Bangladesh/Selected_picture_item"," 16.78%   45.140      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 16.14%   43.404      1 Portal:Bangladesh/Selected_picture/3"," 15.89%   42.741      3 Template:Category_handler"," 15.62%   42.004      1 Template:Top_icon"," 10.81%   29.068      1 Portal:Bangladesh/Selected_biography_item"," 10.41%   28.001      1 Portal:Bangladesh/Selected_picture_archive/September_2007"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.031","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1624276,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1174","timestamp":"20170208030046","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":413,"wgHostname":"mw1174"});});
