 







Portal:California

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  



















California (i/ˌkælᵻˈfɔːrnjə/ KAL-ə-FORN-yə, /ˌkælᵻˈfɔːrniə/ KAL-ə-FAWR-nee-ə) is a state located on the West Coast of the United States. It is the most populous U.S. state, with 39 million people, and the third largest state by area (after Alaska and Texas). California is bordered by Oregon to the north, Nevada to the east, Arizona to the southeast, and the Mexican state of Baja California to the south. It contains the nation's second most populous census statistical area (Greater Los Angeles Area) and the fifth most populous (San Francisco Bay Area), and eight of the nation's 50 most populated cities (Los Angeles, San Diego, San Jose, San Francisco, Fresno, Sacramento, Long Beach, and Oakland). Sacramento has been the state capital since 1854.
What is now California was first settled by various Native American tribes before being explored by a number of European expeditions during the 16th and 17th centuries. It was then claimed by the Spanish Empire as part of Alta California in the larger territory of New Spain. Alta California became a part of Mexico in 1821 following its successful war for independence, but was ceded to the United States in 1848 after the Mexican–American War. The western portion of Alta California was organized as the State of California, which was admitted as the 31st state on September 9, 1850. The California Gold Rush starting in 1848 led to dramatic social and demographic change, with large-scale immigration from the east and abroad with an accompanying economic boom.
California's diverse geography ranges from the Sierra Nevada in the east to the Pacific Coast in the west, from the redwood–Douglas fir forests of the northwest, to the Mojave Desert areas in the southeast. The center of the state is dominated by the Central Valley, a major agricultural area. California contains both the highest point (Mount Whitney) and the lowest point (Death Valley), in the contiguous United States and it has the 3rd longest coastline of all states (after Alaska and Florida). Earthquakes are common because of the state's location along the Pacific Ring of Fire. About 37,000 earthquakes are recorded each year, but most are too small to be felt.
California's economy is centered on technology, finance, real estate services, government, and professional, scientific and technical business services; together comprising 58% of the State economy. Although only 1.5% of the State's economy, California's agriculture industry has the highest output of any U.S. State. If it were a country, California would be the 8th or 9th largest economy in the world and the 34th most populous.
More about California...



View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article






The California State Polytechnic University, Pomona , commonly known as Cal Poly Pomona is a public, nationally-ranked, coeducational university, and one of the 23 general campuses of the California State University system. The main campus sits on 1,438 acres (582 ha) of a suburban district in the western corner of Pomona, California a city within Los Angeles County. This figure includes a 53 acre ranch in Santa Paula, California donated in 1978. Founded in 1938 as the Voorhis Unit , Cal Poly Pomona is known for taking a learn-by-doing philosophy in several areas of the educational spectrum.
As a polytechnic university, Cal Poly Pomona maintains strong science and engineering departments. The university's engineering program. Cal Poly Pomona is a member of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities (AASCU) and a "University of Excellence" according to the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges.



More selected articles...
Read more...




edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Trisweb
Sather Tower on the University of California, Berkeley campus, overlooking the San Francisco Bay with Mount Tamalpais in the distance. Picture taken from California Memorial Stadium at sunset, 2006.

More selected pictures... Read more...



edit  
Did you know?




...that 8-year-old Sylvia Mendez played an instrumental role in the 1946 Mendez v. Westminster case, which successfully ended de jure segregation in California schools?
...that the Yana people people of California hid in the Sierra Nevada mountains for over 40 years their survival and existence unknown in the United States from 1865 to 1911?
...that Zinfandel was grown for table grapes in Boston long before it made wine in California?


Archives • Read more...






edit  
Selected biography



Joshua Abraham Norton (c. 1819 – January 8, 1880), also known as His Imperial Majesty Emperor Norton I, was a celebrated citizen of San Francisco, California who proclaimed himself "Emperor of these United States" and, in 1859, "Protector of Mexico." Born in London, Norton spent most of his early life in South Africa; he emigrated to San Francisco in 1849 after receiving a bequest of $40,000 from his father's estate. Norton initially made a living as a businessman, but he lost his fortune investing in Peruvian rice.
After losing a lawsuit in which he tried to void his rice contract, Norton left San Francisco. He returned a few years later, apparently mentally unbalanced, claiming to be the emperor of the United States. Although he had no political power, and his influence extended only so far as he was humored by those around him, he was treated deferentially in San Francisco, and currency issued in his name was honored in the establishments he frequented.



Archives • Read more...







edit  
Categories






▼ California


► California-related lists



► Buildings and structures in California



► Communications in California



► California culture



► Demographics of California



► Economy of California



► Education in California



► Environment of California



► Geography of California



► Government of California



► Health in California



► History of California



► Indigenous peoples of California



► Landmarks in California



► California law



► Military in California



► Native American tribes in California



► Organizations based in California



► People from California



► Politics of California



► Science and technology in California



► California society



► Sports in California



► Tourist attractions in California



► Transportation in California



► Wikipedia books on California



► Images of California



► California stubs










edit  
Related WikiProjects




Main Project

California

Sub-projects

Southern California • Los Angeles • San Francisco Bay Area • Santa Barbara County • California State Highways • California County Routes • University of California • California State University






edit  
Selected quote





California is an island, and New York's an island. Maybe it's time for me to change islands.
— Paul Mazursky







Archives • Read more...






edit  
Selected panorama












Credit: Rogerroger.org



The Kern River is a river in the U.S. state of California, approximately 164 miles (264 km) long. It drains an area of the southern Sierra Nevada mountains northeast of Bakersfield. Fed by snowmelt near Mount Whitney, the river passes through scenic canyons in the mountains and is a popular destination for whitewater rafting and kayaking.



Archives • Read more...







edit  
Quality content


Featured articles


 2007 USC Trojans football team
 Nick Adenhart
 Aliso Creek (Orange County)
 Amador Valley High School
 Amanita ocreata
 Maya Angelou
 Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy
 Bale Out
 Ann Bannon
 John Barrymore
 Blade Runner
 Avery Brundage
 California Chrome
 California Diamond Jubilee half dollar
 California Gold Rush
 University of California, Riverside
 California condor
 California's 12th congressional district election, 1946
 Californium
 Calutron
 Casablanca (film)
 Charlie Chaplin
 Murray Chotiner
 Colorado River
 Cougar
 Cutthroat trout
 Death Valley National Park
 Walt Disney
 Donner Party
 Dookie
 Kirsten Dunst
 Henry Edwards (entomologist)
 Eisenhower dollar
 Flight Unlimited II
 Flower Drum Song
 Geology of the Death Valley area
 Geology of the Lassen volcanic area
 Jake Gyllenhaal
 Winfield Scott Hancock
 Heidi Game
 History of the Yosemite area
 Hurricane Linda (1997)
 Hurricane Nora (1997)
 Janet Jackson
 Michael Jackson
 Angelina Jolie
 Sandy Koufax
 Franklin Knight Lane
 Liberty Head double eagle
 Mantra-Rock Dance
 Manzanar
 Metallica
 Bob Meusel
 Harvey Milk
 Mono–Inyo Craters
 Monroe Doctrine Centennial half dollar
 Marilyn Monroe
 Mulholland Drive (film)
 Madman Muntz
 NeXT
 Pat Nixon
 Richard Nixon
 Ruth Norman
 Emperor Norton
 Odwalla
 Oganesson
 Gerard K. O'Neill
 J. Robert Oppenheimer
 Orel Hershiser's scoreless innings streak
 Panama–Pacific commemorative coins
 Panavision
 Jack Parsons (rocket engineer)
 George S. Patton
 Katy Perry
 Brad Pitt
 Plutonium
 Port Chicago disaster
 R U Professional
 Rainbow trout
 Nancy Reagan
 Ronald Reagan
 Redwood National and State Parks
 Regents of the University of California v. Bakke
 Elias Abraham Rosenberg
 Bill Russell
 San Francisco
 Santa María de Óvila
 Mark Satin
 Scene7
 Schmerber v. California
 Seacology
 Temple Sinai (Oakland, California)
 Sisters at Heart
 Ozzie Smith
 Jo Stafford
 Stanford Memorial Church
 Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home
 Gwen Stefani
 Edward Teller
 Thatgamecompany
 Thomcord
 Joseph W. Tkach
 Tool (band)
 United States Senate election in California, 1950
 United States v. Wong Kim Ark
 Jerry Voorhis
 Jack L. Warner
 Bernard Williams
 Anna May Wong
 Yosemite National Park
 Zodiac (film)


Featured lists


 1984 Summer Olympics medal table
 1st Academy Awards
 59th Academy Awards
 60th Academy Awards
 61st Academy Awards
 62nd Academy Awards
 63rd Academy Awards
 64th Academy Awards
 65th Academy Awards
 66th Academy Awards
 67th Academy Awards
 68th Academy Awards
 69th Academy Awards
 70th Academy Awards
 71st Academy Awards
 72nd Academy Awards
 73rd Academy Awards
 74th Academy Awards
 75th Academy Awards
 76th Academy Awards
 77th Academy Awards
 78th Academy Awards
 79th Academy Awards
 80th Academy Awards
 81st Academy Awards
 82nd Academy Awards
 83rd Academy Awards
 84th Academy Awards
 85th Academy Awards
 86th Academy Awards
 88th Academy Awards
 List of Governors of California
 Leo Carrillo on stage and screen
 List of international goals scored by Landon Donovan
 List of Golden State Warriors head coaches
 List of acquisitions by Juniper Networks
 List of California hurricanes
 List of cities and towns in California
 List of San Francisco Municipal Railway lines
 List of tallest buildings in San Diego
 List of 1960 Winter Olympics medal winners
 List of ANA Inspiration champions
 List of Bay Area Rapid Transit stations
 List of Caltrain stations
 List of Crystal Dynamics video games
 List of Los Angeles Clippers seasons
 List of Los Angeles Metro Rail stations
 List of Muni Metro stations
 List of Oakland Athletics team records
 List of Oakland Raiders head coaches
 List of Sacramento Regional Transit light rail stations
 List of San Diego Padres team records
 List of San Francisco 49ers head coaches
 List of San Francisco Giants Opening Day starting pitchers
 List of San Francisco Giants first-round draft picks
 List of San Francisco Giants managers
 List of San Jose Sharks players
 List of Santa Clara VTA Light Rail stations
 List of acquisitions by Adobe Systems
 List of acquisitions by Cisco Systems
 List of acquisitions by Electronic Arts
 List of mergers and acquisitions by Alphabet
 List of acquisitions by eBay
 List of cities and towns in the San Francisco Bay Area
 List of mergers and acquisitions by Apple
 List of mergers and acquisitions by Yahoo!
 List of tallest buildings in Los Angeles
 List of tallest buildings in Oakland, California
 List of tallest buildings in San Francisco
 List of Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim first-round draft picks
 List of Los Angeles Lakers seasons
 Mayor of San Diego
 Mayor of San Francisco
 List of milestone home runs by Barry Bonds
 List of San Diego Padres first-round draft picks
 List of mergers and acquisitions by Symantec


A-Class articles


 1st Filipino Infantry Regiment


Featured portals


 Portal:California
 Portal:California Roads


Featured pictures


 File:1967 Mantra-Rock Dance Avalon poster.jpg
 File:2010 mavericks competition.jpg
 File:20070616 Chris Young visits Wrigley (4)-edit3.jpg
 File:Agassiz statue Mwc00715.jpg
 File:Albino Alligator 2008.jpg
 File:Alcatraz03182006.jpg
 File:Bodie ghost town.jpg
 File:Border Mexico USA.jpg
 File:Burned mobile home neighborhood in California edit.jpg
 File:CID Array.jpg
 File:California island Vinckeboons5.jpg
 File:California state coat of arms (illustrated, 1876).jpg
 File:CampanileMtTamalpiasSunset-original.jpg
 File:Deathvalleysky nps big.jpg
 File:Devastation in San Bruno.jpg
 File:Dorothea Lange atop automobile in California.jpg
 File:EdwardTeller1958 fewer smudges.jpg
 File:Elephant seals fighting.jpg
 File:Fort Baker and Angel Island.jpg
 File:Fort Mason Center and Downtown San Francisco.jpg
 File:GGB reflection in raindrops.jpg
 File:Giant Marbles in Joshua Tree National Park.jpg
 File:GoldenGateBridge BakerBeach MC.jpg
 File:Grauman's Chinese Theatre, by Carol Highsmith fixed & straightened.jpg
 File:Greater Yellowlegs2.jpg
 File:Gull ca usa.jpg
 File:Hawk eating prey.jpg
 File:Hotel Del c1900b.jpg
 File:JetBlue292Landing.jpg
 File:JohnShea.jpg
 File:Joshua tree keys view pano more vertical.jpg
 File:LAPD Bell 206 Jetranger.jpg
 File:LagunaBeachCA photo D Ramey Logan.JPG
 File:Lange-MigrantMother02.jpg
 File:Langechildren2.jpg
 File:Lockheed SR-71 Blackbird.jpg
 File:Los Angeles Pollution.jpg
 File:Los angeles from getty panorama.jpg
 File:Map of Cathedral Peak Granodiorite.svg
 File:Mission Santa Clara.jpg
 File:Mono lake tufa.JPG
 File:Official Portrait of President Reagan 1981.jpg
 File:Pioneertown california saloon and bath house.jpg
 File:Point Reyes Lighthouse (April 2012).jpg
 File:Randy's donuts1 edit1.jpg
 File:Ronald Reagan with cowboy hat 12-0071M edit.jpg
 File:SFO at night.jpg
 File:San Francisco in ruin edit2.jpg
 File:San gorgonio pass wind farm california pano.jpg
 File:SanFrancisco1851a.jpg
 File:SanFranciscoharbor1851c sharp.jpg
 File:Sfearthquake3b.jpg
 File:Surfer in california 2.JPG
 File:Tower Bridge Sacramento edit.jpg
 File:USA Lassen NP Kings Creek CA edit3.jpg
 File:Vernal Falls Rainbow.jpg
 File:Vineyards of Napa Valley panorama.jpg
 File:Walt Disney Concert Hall, LA, CA, jjron 22.03.2012.jpg
 File:Zabriskie Point, Death Valley, California, panorama.jpg






edit  
Things you can do




Create Requested California Articles
Help assess articles supported by WikiProject California
Help suggest content for usage in this portal by using the archive links to obtain instructions
Write California-related topics if you see a redlink which is worthy of an article
Cleanup and expand stub-class articles relating to California





edit  
Topics





Counties: Alameda • Alpine • Amador • Butte • Calaveras • Colusa • Contra Costa • Del Norte • El Dorado • Fresno • Glenn • Humboldt • Imperial • Inyo • Kern • Kings • Lake • Lassen • Los Angeles • Madera • Marin • Mariposa • Mendocino • Merced • Modoc • Mono • Monterey • Napa • Nevada • Orange • Placer • Plumas • Riverside • Sacramento • San Benito • San Bernardino • San Diego • San Francisco • San Joaquin • San Luis Obispo • San Mateo • Santa Barbara • Santa Clara • Santa Cruz • Shasta • Sierra • Siskiyou • Solano • Sonoma • Stanislaus • Sutter • Tehama • Trinity • Tulare • Tuolumne • Ventura • Yolo • Yuba•
Economy: California State Lottery • California locations by per capita income • Coachella Valley Enterprise Zone • San Jose Assembly Plant • Shell Development Emeryville • Silicon Valley • Silicon Valley Leadership Group • Stanford Research Park • California unemployment statistics •



Government of California: List of California state agencies • Association of Monterey Bay Area Governments • California Attorney General • California State Board of Education • CDF Aviation Management Program • CalPERS • California Air Resources Board • California Commission for Economic Development • California Department of Boating and Waterways • California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection • California Department of Insurance • California Insurance Commissioner election, 2006 • California Legislative Analyst's Office • California Military Department • California Public Utilities Commission • California Speaks • California State Lands Commission • California State Lottery • California executive branch • CaliforniaVolunteers • California State Capitol • List of California District Attorneys • Districts in California • State of California enterprise IT systems • Department of Fair Employment and Housing • California Geological Survey • Governor of California • 11-99 Foundation • California Institute for Regenerative Medicine • California Insurance Commissioner • Joint Powers Authority • Local Agency Formation Commission • Secretary of State of California • List of law enforcement agencies in California • California State Controller • California State Police • California Department of Transportation • California State Treasurer • Westlands Water District •







edit  
Subportals




California Roads

Greater Los Angeles

San Francisco Bay Area

San Diego County

San Diego–Tijuana





edit  
Related portals




North America

United States

U.S. Roads

Arizona

Nevada

Oregon

Mexico





edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species













What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Shortcuts to this page: P:CALIFORNIA • P:CAL

Purge server cache








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:California&oldid=667590478"					
Categories: California portalUnited States portals by state or territoryCalifornia portalsHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةБългарскиEspañolFrançaisItalianoNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 19 June 2015, at 05:55.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.616","walltime":"0.821","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4213,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":261396,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":105809,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":10,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  458.483      1 -total"," 47.58%  218.142      1 Portal:California/Quality_content"," 45.46%  208.405      5 Template:Columns-list"," 40.73%  186.730    249 Template:Icon"," 25.28%  115.905      6 Template:Random_portal_component","  7.84%   35.948      1 Portal:California/Selected_panorama/Layout","  7.41%   33.983      1 Template:Convert","  7.39%   33.877      1 Portal:California/Intro","  5.39%   24.708      2 Template:IPAc-en","  5.19%   23.792      1 Template:Featured_portal"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.222","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5886335,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1278","timestamp":"20170206150457","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":61,"wgHostname":"mw1212"});});
