 







Portal:Connecticut

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



edit  
The Connecticut Portal





Connecticut ( /kəˈnɛtɪkət/ (help·info)) is a state located in the New England region of the northeastern United States. The state borders Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, New York to the west, and because various islands of New York span Connecticut's entire coast, New York as well to the south. Southwestern Connecticut is part of the New York metropolitan area, and three of Connecticut's eight counties—including the majority of the state's population—are in the New York City combined statistical area, commonly referred to as the Tri-State Region. The center of population of the state is in Cheshire, New Haven County.
Connecticut is the 29th most populous state, with 3.4 million residents, and is ranked 48th in size by area, making it the 4th most densely populated state. Nicknamed the "Constitution State" or the "Nutmeg state", Connecticut has a long history dating from early colonial times and was influential in the development of the federal government. Connecticut was also the 5th U.S state to ratify to the United States constitution. Connecticut's first European settlers were Dutch and established a small, short-lived settlement in present-day Hartford at the confluence of the Park and Connecticut Rivers called Huys de Goede Hoop. Initially, half of Connecticut was a part of the Dutch colony New Netherland, which included much of the land between the Connecticut and Delaware Rivers. (more...)



Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Although Connecticut is not known for tornadoes, more than 100 of these powerful storms have affected the state in modern history, resulting in at least 48 deaths, 780 injuries, and more than $500 million in damage. This list of tornadoes in the state is likely incomplete, as official records date back only to 1950 for tornadoes in the United States. As with most of the northeastern United States, the number of tornadoes peaks in the summer months; specifically, July and August. Hartford County has had the most recorded tornadoes in its history, although since 1950 Litchfield County has reported the most tornadoes. Several areas have been struck more than once, and Waterbury has been struck by no less than four tornadoes since 1955. From 1953 to 1991, Connecticut recorded an average of about 1.3 tornadoes per year, ranked 43rd in the United States. Although Connecticut tornadoes are typically weak, isolated events can be violent. Three tornadoes of F4 intensity have affected the state in its history, as well as at least 27 "strong" tornadoes (F2 or greater). Outbreaks of three or more tornadoes in a single day occurred in 1786, 1787, 1878, 1973, 1989, 1998, and 2001. The year 1973 was particularly active; eight tornadoes occurred on six separate days.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Dave Wright



Northwest view of Mark Twain House



...Archive/Nominations






edit  
Did you know?



...that the Native American Old Connecticut Path from Cambridge, Massachusetts to the Connecticut River across from Hartford, was the very first of the American trails that led west from the Atlantic seacoast settlement, towards the interior?
...that Connecticut Route 136 is one of only two state highways in Connecticut that has a gap in state maintenance?
... that the Norfolk, Connecticut-based performing arts venue Infinity Hall was built in 1883 as a combination opera house, barber shop and saloon?


...Archive/Nominations






edit  
Selected biography



Christopher John "Chris" Dodd (born May 27, 1944) is an American lawyer and Democratic politician currently serving as the senior U.S. Senator from Connecticut. Dodd served as a U.S. Representative from Connecticut from 1975 until 1981, when he became a Senator. He served as general chairman of the Democratic National Committee from 1995 to 1997. He is now the state's senior Senator. He currently serves as Chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. Currently Dodd is the longest-serving Senator in Connecticut's history, the 10th most senior of current Senators and one of three from the 1980 freshman class who are still serving (the others are Arlen Specter and Chuck Grassley). Dodd was born in Willimantic, Connecticut. His parents were Grace Mary Dodd (née Murphy) and U.S. Senator Thomas Joseph Dodd; all eight of his great-grandparents were born in Ireland.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In the news



Wikinews Connecticut portal

September 16: Subway sandwich empire co-founder Fred DeLuca dies
February 3: Connecticut ex-death row inmate Robert Courchesne dies
November 25: Gunman alleged loose on Yale campus
December 18: Hackers target Westboro Baptist Church website, Twitter account





edit  
Categories






▼ Connecticut


► Connecticut-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Connecticut



► Communications in Connecticut



► Connecticut culture



► Economy of Connecticut



► Education in Connecticut



► Environment of Connecticut



► Geography of Connecticut



► Government of Connecticut



► Health in Connecticut



► History of Connecticut



► Landmarks in Connecticut



► Connecticut law



► Military in Connecticut



► Native American tribes in Connecticut



► People from Connecticut



► Politics of Connecticut



► Science and technology in Connecticut



► Connecticut society



► Sports in Connecticut



► Tourist attractions in Connecticut



► Transportation in Connecticut



► Wikipedia books on Connecticut



► Images of Connecticut



► Connecticut stubs










edit  
Related WikiProjects



WikiProject Connecticut • WikiProject Connecticut routes






edit  
Quotes of, or by people from, Connecticut







But much of what Mr. Wallace calls his global thinking is, no matter how you slice it, still “globaloney." Mr. Wallace's warp of sense and his woof of nonsense is very tricky cloth out of which to cut the pattern of a post-war world.
— Clare Boothe Luce







Archives






edit  
Selected panorama












Credit:



The Morgan G. Bulkeley Bridge over the Connecticut River at Hartford, Connecticut



...Archive/Nominations









edit  
Quality content




Featured content

USS Connecticut (BB-18) • Metacomet Ridge • Hurricane Gloria • Hurricane Floyd • 2006 Westchester County tornado • List of Connecticut tornadoes • List of counties in Connecticut


Good articles

Effects of Hurricane Isabel in New York and New England • Mark Twain House • James Morris III • George W. Bush • Demon Murder Trial • Connecticut Wing Civil Air Patrol • Buddy Fletcher • 1989 Northeastern United States tornado outbreak • 1821 Norfolk and Long Island hurricane • Connecticut Route 190 • Connecticut Route 361 • U.S. Route 5 in Connecticut




edit  
Locations



Counties: Fairfield County • Hartford County • Litchfield County • Middlesex County • New Haven County • New London County • Tolland County • Windham County



Cities: Ansonia • Bridgeport • Bristol • Danbury • Derby • Groton • Hartford • Meriden • Middletown • Milford • New Britain • New Haven • New London • Norwalk • Norwich • Shelton • Stamford • Torrington • Waterbury • West Haven • Winsted
Former Cities: South Norwalk • Rockville • Willimantic • Putnam





edit  
Things you can do



To Improve to featured standard: Hartford, Connecticut, History of Connecticut
Lists to de-redlink: List of Connecticut rivers, List of Connecticut state forests, List of Connecticut state parks, List of individuals executed in Connecticut, List of Connecticut railroads, List of high schools in Connecticut, List of bridges on the National Register of Historic Places in Connecticut
Lists to complete: List of school districts in Connecticut, List of people from Connecticut, List of islands of Connecticut, List of Connecticut companies, List of law enforcement agencies in Connecticut, List of museums in Connecticut
Other tasks:

Help assess articles supported by WikiProject Connecticut
Help suggest content for usage in this portal by using the archive links to obtain instructions
Write Connecticut-related topics if you see a redlink which is worthy of an article








edit  
Related portals












North America
United States
Rhode Island
New York
Massachusetts
New Hampshire






edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Connecticut&oldid=644092685"					
Categories: Connecticut portalUnited States portals by state or territoryConnecticutWikiProject ConnecticutHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


EspañolFrançais 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 12:12.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.184","walltime":"0.350","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1953,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":88108,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6592,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  238.798      1 -total"," 37.28%   89.032      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.38%   46.269      1 Portal:Connecticut/Intro"," 16.34%   39.024      1 Template:Random_subpage","  9.67%   23.090      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.47%   20.238      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.41%   17.687      1 Portal:Connecticut/Intro/3","  7.15%   17.081     15 Portal:Box-header","  6.79%   16.215      9 Portal:Connecticut/box-header","  6.35%   15.166      1 Portal:Connecticut/Intro/Image_Layout"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.045","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1312752,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1214","timestamp":"20170206173250","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":49,"wgHostname":"mw1268"});});
