 







Portal:England

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



edit  
The England Portal
























England ( /ˈɪŋɡlənd/ (help·info)) is a country that is part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Its mainland is on the central and southern part of the island of Great Britain in the North Atlantic. England shares land borders with Scotland to the north and Wales to the west; and adjoins the Irish Sea to the north-west, the Celtic Sea to the south-west and the North Sea to the east. The English Channel separates it from continental Europe. In addition to the mainland, England includes over 100 smaller islands, including the Isles of Scilly and the Isle of Wight. England's population is about 51 million, around 84% of the United Kingdom.
England has been settled by humans of various cultures for over 29,000 years but it takes its name from the Angles, one of the Germanic tribes who settled Great Britain during the 5th and 6th centuries. England became a unified state in AD 927 and after the Age of Discovery has had a significant cultural and legal impact on the wider world. England was where the English language, the Anglican Church and English law, which forms the basis of the common law legal systems of countries around the world, developed. The innovations that came from England have been widely adopted by other nations, such as its parliamentary system, which is the world's oldest. During the 18th century England underwent the Industrial Revolution and became the first country in the world to industrialise. Its Royal Society laid the foundations of modern experimental science.
Most of England is lowland but there are upland regions in the north (such as the Lake District, Pennines and Yorkshire Moors) and in the south and south west (such as Dartmoor, the Cotswolds, and the North and South Downs). London, a global city and England's capital, is the largest metropolitan area in the United Kingdom and the largest urban zone in the European Union by most measures. The population of England is concentrated in London and the South East, as well as the conurbations in the Midlands, the North West, the North East and Yorkshire, which developed as major industrial regions during the 19th century.
The Kingdom of England (which included Wales) was a sovereign state until 1 May 1707 when the Acts of Union put into effect the terms agreed in the Treaty of Union the previous year and resulted in a political union with the Kingdom of Scotland that created the united Kingdom of Great Britain. In 1800 Great Britain was united with Ireland through another Act of Union 1800 to become the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. In 1922 the Irish Free State was established as a separate dominion but the Royal and Parliamentary Titles Act in 1927 reincorporated into the kingdom six Irish counties to officially create the current United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
More about England...



Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The Kennet and Avon Canal is a canal in southern England. The name may refer to either the route of the original Kennet and Avon Canal Company, which linked the River Kennet at Newbury to the River Avon at Bath, or to the entire navigation between the River Thames at Reading and the Floating Harbour at Bristol, including the earlier improved river navigations of the River Kennet between Reading and Newbury and the River Avon between Bath and Bristol.
The River Kennet was made navigable to Newbury in 1723, and the River Avon to Bath in 1727. The canal between Newbury and Bath opened in 1810 and is 57 miles (92 km) long. The two river navigations and the canal total 87 miles (140 km) in length. In the later 19th century and early 20th century the canal fell into disuse following competition from the Great Western Railway, who owned the canal. In the latter half of the 20th century the canal was restored, largely by volunteers, and today is a popular heritage tourism destination, for boating, canoeing, fishing, walking and cycling. It is also important for wildlife conservation.

More selections • Read more...




edit  
Selected picture



Photo credit: Michael Rowe
The white cliffs of Dover cliffs which form part of the English coastline facing the Strait of Dover and France. The cliffs are part of the North Downs formation. The cliff face, which reaches up to 106 metres high, owes its striking façade to its composition of chalk (pure white calcium carbonate) accentuated by streaks of black flint.

More selections • Read more...



edit  
Selected biography


Samuel Cowan (10 May 1901 – 4 October 1964) was an English football player and manager. A relative latecomer to the sport, Cowan did not play football until he was 17 and was 22 by the time he turned professional. He made his league debut for Doncaster Rovers in 1923, and signed for First Division Manchester City the following season.
Cowan played centre half for Manchester City for 11 seasons, captaining the team in the early to mid 1930s. He is the only player to have represented Manchester City in three FA Cup finals, as a runner-up in 1926 and 1933, and as a winner in 1934. Internationally, he gained three England caps between 1926 and 1931. In total he played 407 times for Manchester City, putting him 12th in terms of all-time appearances. In 1935, he transferred to Bradford City, and subsequently moved to Mossley as player-manager. In 1938, Cowan joined Brighton & Hove Albion as a coach, and set up a physiotherapy business. He returned to Manchester City as manager in 1946, winning the Second Division in his only season in charge. He continued to work in sports and physiotherapy until his death in 1964.



More selections • Read more...









edit  
Did you know?



...that Lambeth, in the London Borough of Lambeth appeared in the Domesday Book of 1086?
...that Ennerdale Water is home to over 30,000 people daily?
...that the Old Bailey was destroyed in the 1666 Great Fire of London, only to be rebuilt in 1674?
...that a Jury is only sent to cases of an indictable offence that has been sent to a Crown Court by a magistrates?

More selections



edit  
In the news




February 5: Frank Lampard announces retirement from football
January 29: Black Sabbath ex-keyboardist Geoff Nicholls dies
January 14: Man charged over motorway bridge collapse in Kent, England
January 3: UK documentary claims fire weakened RMS Titanic
December 28: British singer George Michael, 53, dies
December 15: UEFA Champions League 2016-2017: Draw for Last 16 held at Nyon
December 13: Detained journalist Mohamed Tamalt dies in Algeria
November 27: Judge jails 'monstrous' London serial killer Stephen Port

Read more...




edit  
Selected featured content


Articles:

Arsenal F.C.
BBC television drama
Charles I of England
Manchester
Mendip Hills
National parks of England and Wales
Only Fools and Horses
Weymouth
William IV of the United Kingdom

Lists:

Grade I listed buildings in Bristol
List of English Academy Award nominees and winners
List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Cleveland
Locks on the Kennet and Avon Canal

Read more...




edit  
Categories






▼ England


► Buildings and structures in England



► Communications in England



► English culture



► Economy of England



► Education in England



► England-centric



► Events in England



► Geography of England



► Health in England



► History of England



► Housing in England



► England-related lists



► Missing person cases in England



► Organisations based in England



► English people



► Politics of England



► Regions of England



► Religion in England



► Science and technology in England



► English society



► Sport in England



► Tourist attractions in England



► Transport in England



► Images of England



► England stubs












edit  
Selected quotes





“
An Englishman, even if he is alone, forms an orderly queue of one.
”





— George Mikes




More selections • Read more...



edit  
Related WikiProjects



England • Bedfordshire • Brighton • Cheshire • Cornwall • Derbyshire • Greater Manchester • Hampshire • Lincolnshire • London • Merseyside • Northamptonshire • North East England • Sheffield • Surrey. Warwickshire • West Midlands • Worcestershire • Yorkshire





edit  
Topics





Cities and major towns: Blackpool • Birmingham • Bristol • Chelmsford • Leeds • Liverpool • London • Manchester • Newcastle • Nottingham • Oxford • Portsmouth • Sheffield • Southampton • Stoke-on-Trent
Culture: The Football Association • Rugby Football Union • England and Wales Cricket Board • English inventions and discoveries
Geography: Geology • Climate • Mountains and hills • Islands • Rivers
Economy: Bank of England • London Stock Exchange • Chancellor of the Exchequer • Monetary Policy Committee • HM Treasury


History: Timeline of English history • Prehistoric Britain • Roman Britain • Anglo-Saxon England • House of Lancaster • House of York • House of Tudor • House of Stuart
Governance: Kingdom of England • Prime Minister of the United Kingdom • Parliament of the United Kingdom • Home Secretary • Local Government Boundary Commission for England • Administrative divisions of England • English law
Symbols: Flags • Flag of England • St George's Cross • Tudor rose • Coat of arms of England







edit  
Things you can do




Please visit the English Wikipedians' notice board and help to write new England-related articles, and expand and improve existing ones.
Visit Wikipedia:WikiProject England/Assessment, and help out by assessing unrated English articles.
Add the Project Banner to English articles around Wikipedia.
Check for announcements and open tasks for ways to improve English related articles.
Help nominate and select new content for the England portal.
Requested articles: Charterhouse Lane • Renewable energy in England • Ealing Village
Expand: Dorothy Boyd • David Troughton





edit  
Related Portals






Regions
East Midlands · North East · North West · South East · Peak District





Cities and towns
Bristol · London · Luton · Stamford






Counties

 Berkshire
 Buckinghamshire
 Cheshire
 Cornwall
 Cumbria
 Derbyshire
 Devon
 Dorset
 Greater Manchester
 Hampshire
 Hertfordshire
 Isle of Wight
 Kent
 Lancashire
 Lincolnshire
 Merseyside
 Oxfordshire
 Somerset
 Staffordshire
 Surrey
 Sussex
( East ·  West)
 Wiltshire
 Yorkshire













Ireland
Northern Ireland
Isle of Man
Wales
Scotland
United Kingdom
English law






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:England&oldid=707198320"					
Categories: England portalEnglandWikiProject EnglandHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisourceWikiversity 



Languages


العربيةΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançaisМакедонскиPortuguêsРусскийTürkçeУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 27 February 2016, at 11:55.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.264","walltime":"0.409","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2853,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":109322,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":22717,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  216.846      1 -total"," 31.56%   68.438      1 Portal:England/Related_portals"," 29.75%   64.522      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 26.85%   58.219      1 Template:Columns-list"," 23.36%   50.646     25 Template:Flagicon"," 12.66%   27.461      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.16%   24.190      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.90%   17.127      1 Template:Category_handler","  7.56%   16.395     14 Template:Box-header","  6.13%   13.303      9 Portal:England/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.037","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1055058,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1230","timestamp":"20170209215618","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":72,"wgHostname":"mw1172"});});
