 







Portal:Bristol

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Bristol Portal




Bristol (i/ˈbrɪstəl/) is a city, unitary authority and county in South West England with an estimated population of 437,500 in 2014. People from the city are known as Bristolians. It is England's sixth and the United Kingdom's eighth most populous city, and the second most populous city in Southern England after London.
Iron Age hill forts and Roman villas were built in the area around the confluence of the Rivers Frome and Avon, and it became known as Brycgstow (Old English "the place at the bridge") around the beginning of the 11th century. Bristol received a royal charter in 1155 and was part of Gloucestershire until 1373, when it became a county. From the 13th to the 18th century, Bristol was among the top three English cities after London (with York and Norwich) in tax receipts. Bristol was eclipsed by the rapid rise of Manchester, Liverpool and Birmingham during the Industrial Revolution. It borders the counties of Somerset and Gloucestershire, with the historic cities of Bath and Gloucester to the southeast and northeast, respectively. The city has a short coastline on the Severn Estuary (which flows into the Bristol Channel).
Bristol's prosperity has been linked with the sea since its earliest days. Around 1500, it was the base for voyages of exploration to the New World: on a ship out of Bristol, John Cabot was the first European, since the Vikings 500 years earlier, to land in North America in 1497; and William Weston, a Bristol merchant, was the first Englishman to lead an exploration to North America, in 1499. The Port of Bristol was originally in the city centre before commercial shipping moved from Bristol Harbour to the Severn Estuary at Avonmouth. Royal Portbury Dock is on the western edge of the city. Its economy has recently depended on the creative media, electronics and aerospace industries, and the city-centre docks have been redeveloped as centres of heritage and culture. The city has two universities and a variety of artistic and sporting organisations and venues. In 2005, Bristol was named by the UK government one of England's six science cities. It is connected with the surrounding region and the rest of the country by road and rail, including the M5 and M4 (which connect to the city centre by the M32 motorway and Bristol Temple Meads and Bristol Parkway railway stations). Bristol, which was named England's first cycling city in 2008, won the European Green Capital Award in 2015. more about Bristol...



Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



Manor Hall is a student hall of residence at the University of Bristol. Situated in the Georgian/Victorian suburb of Clifton, Bristol, it provides self-catering accommodation for around 340 residents, both in the main hall itself and also in a number of nearby surrounding annexes. The majority of residents are first year undergraduate students, but a number of 'returners' choose to stay on to contribute to the hall's life and community in subsequent years of study.
The hall has a number of student run organisations associated with it, the largest of which is the Junior Common Room which all current undergraduates residents are members of, with an elected committee of representatives being responsible for organising social events throughout the year. In addition to the Junior Common Room residents are supported pastorally by a team of Senior Residents who, along with a number of honorary members, make up the Senior Common Room.
After leaving the hall many of its former residents remain in touch via its alumni network: the Manor Hall Association, which organises a number of events throughout the year aimed at both current and former residents.



...Archive


Suggest


More...






edit  
Selected picture














Credit: User:NotFromUtrecht


The Llandoger Trow in King Street.




...Archive


Suggest


More...






edit  
Selected biography




Banksy B. unknown

Banksy is a pseudonymous British graffiti artist, political activist, film director, and painter. His satirical street art and subversive epigrams combine dark humour with graffiti executed in a distinctive stencilling technique. His works of political and social commentary have been featured on streets, walls, and bridges of cities throughout the world.
Banksy's work grew out of the Bristol underground scene, which involved collaborations between artists and musicians. Observers have noted that his style is similar to Blek le Rat, who began to work with stencils in 1981 in Paris. Banksy says that he was inspired by "3D", a graffiti artist who later became a founding member of Massive Attack, an English musical group. Banksy displays his art on publicly visible surfaces such as walls and self-built physical prop pieces. Banksy does not sell photographs or reproductions of his street graffiti, but art auctioneers have been known to attempt to sell his street art on location and leave the problem of its removal in the hands of the winning bidder. Banksy's first film, Exit Through the Gift Shop, billed as "the world's first street art disaster movie", made its debut at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival. The film was released in the UK on 5 March 2010. In January 2011, he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary for the film. In 2014, he was awarded Person of the Year at the 2014 Webby Awards. Banksy opened Dismaland, a large scale group show lampooning Disneyland on 21 August 2015.






...Archive


Suggest


More...







edit  
Did you know...


From Wikipedia's "Did You Know" archives:




... that the Tower Belle (pictured), built by Armstrong Whitworth on the Tyne in 1920 as the Wincomblee, worked on the Thames in London after World War II before moving to Bristol in 1976?
... that the 2010 excursion of the Clifton Antiquarian Club to the Gower Peninsula led to the discovery of what may be the oldest rock art in the British Isles?
... that a July 2013 project called Gromit Unleashed saw 80 decorated giant fibreglass sculptures of Aardman Animations' character Gromit displayed in and around Bristol, England?
... that the single specimen of Houston's Whitebeam grows on a cliff in North Somerset and cannot be accessed without ropes?
... that the Council House in Bristol, England features a blue and gold wall clock, encircled by the signs of the zodiac and equipped with its own wind indicator?

More facts...





edit  
Related portals





Related Portals







Somerset
England
United Kingdom






edit  
Categories


To display further subcategories, click on the arrow symbols








▼ Bristol‎ (21 C, 15 P)


► Bristol-related lists‎ (31 P)



► Bristol City Line‎ (3 P)



► Buildings and structures in Bristol‎ (30 C, 123 P)



► Crime in Bristol‎ (7 P)



► Culture in Bristol‎ (12 C, 61 P)



► Economy of Bristol‎ (5 C, 4 P)



► Education in Bristol‎ (8 C, 10 P)



► Environment of Bristol‎ (5 C, 5 P)



► Geography of Bristol‎ (14 C, 2 P)



► Health in Bristol‎ (1 C, 6 P)



► History of Bristol‎ (14 C, 104 P, 2 F)



► Local government in Bristol‎ (7 C, 7 P)



► Organisations based in Bristol‎ (19 C, 34 P)



► People from Bristol‎ (8 C, 570 P)



► Politics of Bristol‎ (4 C, 26 P)



► Religion in Bristol‎ (2 C, 1 P)



► Science and technology in Bristol‎ (1 C, 3 P)



► Sport in Bristol‎ (7 C, 32 P)



► Tourist attractions in Bristol‎ (25 C, 29 P)



► Transport in Bristol‎ (9 C, 25 P)



► Bristol geography stubs‎ (42 P)












edit  
WikiProjects



WikiProject Bristol





edit  
Things you can do



Bring Bristol up to WP:Featured articles standard.

Requested articles

Longwell Green Coachworks
Redlinks on Grade II listed buildings in Bristol and Grade II* listed buildings in Bristol

Expand

stub-class and start-class articles including: Broad Street, Bristol and Jarrit Smyth
Short articles listed on Grade I listed buildings in Bristol, Grade II* listed buildings in Bristol and Grade II listed buildings in Bristol
Subdivisions of Bristol

Assess

unassessed articles
Assign an importance rating to unknown-importance articles.

Improve

C-class articles
B-class articles
Good Articles

Unreferenced BLPs

WP:WikiProject Bristol/Unreferenced BLPs

Cleanup list


Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.

Add photos to these articles
Add maps to these articles
Add infoboxes to these articles






edit  
Recognised content


Featured articles


 Blackbeard
 Bristol
 Buildings and architecture of Bristol
 Charles Holden
 Kennet and Avon Canal
 Knowle West
 Woodes Rogers
 J. K. Rowling
 Murder of Joanna Yeates


Former featured articles


 Isambard Kingdom Brunel


Featured lists


 Works of Keith Floyd
 Grade I listed buildings in Bristol
 List of Bristol Rovers F.C. managers
 List of Bristol Rovers F.C. players
 List of churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in Southwest England


Good articles


 M32 motorway
 2006–07 Bristol Rovers F.C. season
 Arnolfini
 Ashton Court
 Ashton Court Festival
 River Avon (Bristol)
 Avon Gorge
 Avonmouth (BPRP) railway station
 Avonmouth railway station
 Bedminster railway station
 Tony Benn
 Brislington House
 HMS Bristol (1910)
 Bristol Britannia
 Bristol Bus Boycott
 Bristol Cathedral
 Bristol Harbour
 Bristol Old Vic
 Bristol Parkway railway station
 Bristol Rovers F.C.
 Bristol Temple Meads railway station
 University of Bristol
 Mary Carpenter
 Elizabeth Casson
 Castle Park, Bristol
 Clifton Bridge railway station
 Clifton Down railway station
 Clifton Suspension Bridge
 Climate of south-west England
 Concorde
 The Exchange, Bristol
 Filton Abbey Wood railway station
 River Frome, Bristol
 Cary Grant
 SS Great Britain
 Great Western Railway
 Greyfriars, Bristol
 History of Bristol
 Lawrence Hill railway station
 Leigh Woods National Nature Reserve
 Long Ashton railway station
 Manor Hall, Bristol
 Montpelier railway station
 Jennison Myrie-Williams
 Parson Street railway station
 Patchway railway station
 Pill railway station
 Portway, Bristol
 Redland railway station
 St Mary Redcliffe
 Sea Mills railway station
 Shirehampton railway station
 Stapleton Road railway station
 Jessie Stephen
 Paul Stephenson (civil rights campaigner)
 River Trym
 Victoria Rooms, Bristol
 Whitefriars, Bristol


Former good articles


 Banksy
 Edmund Burke


Did you know? articles


 M32 motorway
 Arno's Court Triumphal Arch
 Janet Arnold
 Avon Bridge
 Avonmouth railway station
 Francis Ayscough
 Bedminster railway station
 Blackfriars, Bristol
 Frederick Bligh Bond
 Brislington House
 Bristol Byzantine
 Bristol Central Library
 Bristol Diamonds
 Bristol Ensemble
 Bristol Festival of Ideas
 Bristol Guild of Applied Art
 Bristol High Cross
 Bristol Ladies
 Bristol Naturalists' Society
 Bristol Packers
 Bristol Packet Boat Trips
 Bristol Pound
 Bristol and Bath Science Park
 Bristol and South Wales Union Railway
 Dixie Brown
 Elizabeth Casson
 Castle Park, Bristol
 City Hall, Bristol
 Clifton Antiquarian Club
 Climate of south-west England
 George Cumberland
 Goéry Delacôte
 Murder of Anni Dewani
 Eliza Walker Dunbar
 The Exchange, Bristol
 Fairfield Grammar School
 Peaches Golding
 Goldney Hall
 Great Gatehouse, Bristol
 Greyfriars, Bristol
 Gromit Unleashed
 Tessa Hadley
 History of the University of Bristol
 History of Bristol Rovers F.C.
 Horseshoe Bend, Shirehampton
 Jacobs Well Theatre
 King William Ale House
 Elizabeth Lachlan
 Vic Lambden
 List of churches preserved by the Churches Conservation Trust in Southwest England
 The Maire of Bristowe is Kalendar
 River Malago
 Mayor of Bristol
 National Nautical School
 New Cut, Bristol
 Clifton Observatory
 Old Library, Bristol
 Mary Perkins
 Pneumatic Institution
 Portway, Bristol
 Red Lodge Museum, Bristol
 Woodes Rogers
 Royal Fort House
 Royal West of England Academy
 Sealing the Tomb
 Shakespeare at the Tobacco Factory
 Sorbus × houstoniae
 Jessie Stephen
 Stokeleigh Camp
 Storming of Bristol
 Tower Belle
 Underfall Yard
 William Weston (explorer)
 Whitefriars, Bristol
 Murder of Joanna Yeates


In the News articles


William Rees-Mogg






edit  
Quotes



St Mary Redcliffe was described by Queen Elizabeth I as "the fairest, goodliest, and most famous parish church in England."
Parliament is not a congress of ambassadors from different and hostile interests; which interests each must maintain, as an agent and advocate, against other agents and advocates; but parliament is a deliberative assembly of one nation, with one interest, that of the whole; where, not local purposes, not local prejudices ought to guide, but the general good, resulting from the general reason of the whole. You choose a member indeed; but when you have chosen him, he is not a member of Bristol, but he is a member of parliament.-Edmund Burke in his Speech to the Electors of Bristol (1774-11-03)






edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Bristol&oldid=702151460"					
Categories: BristolEngland portalHidden categories: Featured portalsArticles including recorded pronunciations 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 January 2016, at 19:50.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.384","walltime":"0.711","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2854,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":161769,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":57906,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  528.568      1 -total"," 43.06%  227.615      1 Portal:Bristol/Intro"," 26.91%  142.220      1 Portal:Bristol/Recognised_content"," 25.62%  135.400      7 Template:Columns-list"," 22.38%  118.316    150 Template:Icon","  8.15%   43.095      4 Template:Random_portal_component","  6.72%   35.500      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.21%   32.831      1 Template:Top_icon","  5.25%   27.738      1 Template:Category_handler","  3.52%   18.582      1 Portal:Bristol/Categories"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.130","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3091363,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1185","timestamp":"20170206172640","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":57,"wgHostname":"mw1212"});});
