 







Portal:North West England

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





edit  
English North West Portal



Location of North West England



North West England is one of the nine official regions of England. Its highest point, Scafell Pike in Cumbria, is also England's highest peak, at 3,209 ft (978 m).
Two large conurbations, centred on the cities of Liverpool and Manchester, dominate the south of the region. The north of the region (that is, north Lancashire and Cumbria) is largely rural, but includes a number of towns such as Kendal and Blackpool. Greater Manchester is the third largest conurbation in England, after Greater London and West Midlands respectively. The combined population of Lancashire, Cumbria, Cheshire (which are largely rural) and the two metropolitan counties of Greater Manchester and Merseyside, which are the counties that make up North West England, is 6,853,200 (2006 estimate).
More about North West England...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Manchester Airport (IATA: MAN, ICAO: EGCC) is a major airport in Manchester, England. It opened to airline traffic in June 1938. It was initially known as Ringway Airport and during World War Two, as RAF Ringway. From 1975 until 1986, the title Manchester International Airport was used. It is located on the boundary between Cheshire and Manchester in the metropolitan county of Greater Manchester.
It has two parallel runways, the second of which opened in 2001 at a cost of £172 million. The airport has three adjacent terminals and a railway station. It is owned by the Manchester Airports Group (MAG) which is controlled by the ten metropolitan borough councils of Greater Manchester and is the largest British-owned airport group.
Manchester Airport has a CAA Public Use Aerodrome Licence (Number P712) that allows flights for the public transport of passengers and for flying instruction.
Manchester Airport is the fourth busiest airport in the United Kingdom (after London Heathrow, London Gatwick and London Stansted). In total passengers handled, Manchester ranked 48th in the world in 2005, down from 45th in 2004. Also, in 2006 Manchester had a recorded 234,835 aircraft movements, of which 213,100 were air transport movements (third highest in the UK) behind Heathrow and just under Gatwick.
Read more...



edit  
Selected biography



David Dickinson (born David Gulessarian, 16 August, 1941 in Stockport, Cheshire (now in Greater Manchester)) is an English antiques expert and television presenter of Armenian ancestry.
Dickinson was born in Macclesfield to an unmarried mother, Eugenie Gulessarian. Eugenie was a member of Armenian textile trading family, whose father had moved from Istanbul to Manchester, England in 1904. Eugenie is also noted as being a gypsy who collected many antiques which sparked David's love for the industry. Dickinson had corresponded with his biological mother in her later life in Jersey, but they never met. Dickinson's biological father is unknown.
David was adopted by the Dickinsons, a local couple. Mr. Dickinson died when David was 12, and as his adoptive mother worked hard to keep the family together, David was in part brought up by his French grandmother. Dickinson began an apprenticeship at an aircraft factory when he was 14, but quickly left to work in the cloth trade in central Manchester. At 19 Dickinson served four years in prison, the majority spent at Strangeways in Manchester, for fraud.
Read more...



edit  
Selected picture






Photo credit: Dan Smith
A Bentley bonnet close-up. (Bentley Motors Limited is a British based manufacturer of luxury automobiles)






edit  
Did you know




...that Chetham's Library in Manchester, England is the oldest public library in the English-speaking world?



...that because of its unique geology, a 230 hectare area of Rosthwaite Fell in Cumbria, England was declared a Site of Special Scientific Interest in 1985?



...that the Church of St James the Great, Haydock, Merseyside was built with timber framing because its flexibility would provide greater protection against possible mining subsidence?





Archive



More...








edit  
Categories





▼ North West England


► Burials in North West England



► Cheshire



► Cities in North West England



► Cumbria



► Greater Manchester



► Lancashire



► Lists of schools in North West England



► Local government in North West England



► Merseyside



► People from North West England



► Politics of North West England



► Postcode areas covering North West England



► Power stations in North West England



► Transport in North West England










edit  
North West England lists


Greater Manchester:

List of bands from Manchester
List of films set in Manchester
TV programmes set in Manchester
List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Greater Manchester

Merseyside:

List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Merseyside
List of films and television shows set in Liverpool
List of Parliamentary constituencies on Merseyside
Listed buildings in Liverpool

Lancashire:

Places in Lancashire
Famous people from Lancashire

Other:

List of Places of Interest in Cheshire
Places of interest in Cumbria





edit  
WikiProjects



Greater Manchester: for all articles relating to Greater Manchester
Merseyside: for all articles relating to Merseyside
Cheshire: for all articles relating to Cheshire
Lancashire and Cumbria: for all articles relating to Lancashire and Cumbria
United Kingdom geography: for all articles relating to the geography and landforms in the United Kingdom
Cities: for all articles relating to worldwide cities





edit  
North West England news




September 10: Manchester City loans Joe Hart to Torino
August 28: Claudio Bravo signs Manchester City
August 10: Manchester United signs Pogba, now costliest player in history






edit  
Things to do



Expand: Cheshire Stubs • Greater Manchester Stubs needing expansion
Create: Articles relevant to Greater Manchester needing creation • Requested articles for the United Kingdom
Participate: Join a WikiProject
Upload: Pictures that are relevant to articles are in demand. Do you have any that are free to use?




edit  
Featured content



Featured articles: Altrincham · Chat Moss · List of castles in Cheshire · John Douglas (architect) · List of new churches by John Douglas · City of Manchester Stadium · Greater Manchester · List of Manchester City F.C. managers · List of Manchester United F.C. managers · List of Manchester United F.C. records and statistics · List of Manchester United F.C. seasons · List of Manchester United F.C. players · List of Manchester United F.C. players (25–99 appearances) · List of Manchester United F.C. players (fewer than 25 appearances) · List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest in Greater Manchester · M62 motorway · Manchester · Manchester City F.C. · Oldham · Pendle witch trials · Peterloo Massacre · List of listed buildings in Runcorn (rural area) · List of listed buildings in Runcorn (urban area) · Shaw and Crompton · Stretford · Trafford

Good articles: A500 road · Acton, St Mary's Church · Askam and Ireleth · Beeston Castle · Brassey, Thomas · Bridgewater Canal · Brunner, John · Buckton Castle · Chester Cathedral · Chester Rows · Churche's Mansion · Craig, Daniel · Crewe Hall · Deva Victrix · Didsbury · Dunham Massey · Eddisbury hill fort · Egerton-Warburton, Rowland · Hale Barns · Halton Castle · Jodrell Bank Observatory · Johnson, Eddie (English footballer) · Lindow Man · Lovell Telescope · Lyme Park · Maiden Castle, Cheshire · Manchester, Bolton and Bury Canal · Middlewich · Milnrow · Opening of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway · Sale · Manchester United F.C. · Nantwich, St Mary's Church · Nether Alderley, St Mary's Church · Norton Priory · Ordsall Hall · Peak District · Runcorn · Urmston · Warburton · Widnes




edit  
Topics





Cities and major towns: Manchester • Liverpool • Warrington • Blackpool • Bolton • Stockport • Preston • Southport • Chester • Oldham • Southport • Salford • Carlisle • Wigan
Culture: Manchester International Festival • Madchester • Bands from Manchester • Gay Village • Manchester United F.C. • Manchester City F.C • International Garden Festival • Capital of Culture • Music of Manchester • Manchester Irish Festival • Creamfields
Education: List of Schools


History: Cottonopolis • Liverpool Blitz • Manchester Blitz • History of Manchester • Creation of Merseyside • Creation of Greater Manchester • XVII Commonwealth Games • Warrington bomb attacks • 1996 Manchester bombing • Munich air disaster • Peterloo Massacre • Pendle witch trials Bank Hall Bretherton
People: People from Manchester • People from Liverpool • People from Lancashire • People from Cheshire • People from Cumbria •
Governance: European Parliament Constituency • Economy • Politics in Manchester • Constituencies in Merseyside







edit  
Related portals










United Kingdom
England
Wales
Scotland







edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:North_West_England&oldid=649229542"					
Hidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:07.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.168","walltime":"0.312","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1797,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":71117,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3017,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  208.255      1 -total"," 20.72%   43.157      4 Template:Random_subpage"," 18.54%   38.610      1 Portal:North_West_England/Intro"," 18.17%   37.838      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 16.98%   35.367      1 Portal:North_West_England/Intro/Image"," 16.74%   34.857      1 Template:Top_icon"," 15.81%   32.931      1 Portal:North_West_England/North_West_England_news"," 14.19%   29.551      1 Template:Category_handler"," 12.55%   26.132      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.06%   23.041      1 Portal:North_West_England/Intro/2"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.028","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1260163,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1182","timestamp":"20170206173207","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":49,"wgHostname":"mw1238"});});
