 







Portal:Florida

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Florida Portal




Florida /ˈflɒrɪdə/ is a state located in the southeastern region of the United States. Most of the state is a large peninsula with the Gulf of Mexico on its west and the Atlantic Ocean on its east. Much of the state has a humid subtropical climate; southern Florida has a tropical climate. Florida was named by Juan Ponce de León, who landed on the peninsula on 2 April 1513, during Pascua Florida (Spanish for "Flowery Easter," referring to the Easter season). Florida is the fourth most populous state in the country.
Archaeological research indicates that Florida had been inhabited for thousands of years before any European settlements. Of the many indigenous peoples, the largest known were the Ais, the Apalachee, the Calusa, the Timucua and the Tocobago tribes. Juan Ponce de León, a Spanish conquistador, named Florida in honor of his discovery of the land on April 2, 1513, during Pascua Florida, a Spanish term for the Easter season (Juan Ponce de León may not have been the first European to reach Florida; according to one report, at least one indigenous tribesman who he encountered in Florida in 1513 spoke Spanish.) From that date forward, the land became known as "La Florida" , although from 1630 until the 19th century Tegesta (after the Tequesta tribe) was the name of choice for the Florida peninsula following publication of a map by the Dutch cartographer Hessel Gerritsz in Joannes de Laet's History of the New World. Over the following century, both the Spanish and French established settlements in Florida, with varying degrees of success. In 1559, Spanish Pensacola was established by Don Tristán de Luna y Arellano as the first European settlement in the continental United States, but it had become abandoned by 1561 and would not be reinhabited until the 1690s. French Huguenots founded Fort Caroline in modern-day Jacksonville in 1564, but the fort was conquered by Spanish forces from St. Augustine the following year. Florida is considered the fishing capital of the world. One of the finest estuaries can be found in the Palm Coast and St Augustine areas. Guided fishing charters and sightseeing tours are very popular in this area because of its unrivaled beauty. Companies such as Palm Coast Fishing Trips are a great way to experience this part of Florida.




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Brothers to the Rescue (Spanish: Hermanos al Rescate) is a Miami-based activist organization headed by José Basulto. Formed by Cuban exiles, the group is widely known for its opposition to the Cuban government and, then, President Fidel Castro. The group formed in 1991 and describes itself as a humanitarian organization aiming to assist and rescue raft refugees emigrating from Cuba and to "support the efforts of the Cuban people to free themselves from dictatorship through the use of active nonviolence." The Cuban government on the other hand accuses them of involvement in terrorist acts. In the course of many flights throughout the early 1990s, the group's planes made repeated incursions into Cuban territory. While these were widely considered airspace violations, Brothers to the Rescue believes that these were acts of legitimate resistance against the government. In 1996, ignoring a final warning by Cuba, two Brothers to the Rescue planes were shot down by the Cuban Air Force, leading to international condemnation.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Nps.gov



Dry Tortugas National Park preserves Fort Jefferson and the Dry Tortugas section of the Florida Keys. The park covers 101 mi² (262 km²), mostly water, about 68 statute miles (109 km) west of Key West in the Gulf of Mexico.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Florida


► Florida-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Florida



► Communications in Florida



► Crime in Florida



► Florida culture



► Demographics of Florida



► Economy of Florida



► Education in Florida



► Environment of Florida



► Geography of Florida



► Government of Florida



► Health in Florida



► History of Florida



► Landmarks in Florida



► Florida law



► Military in Florida



► Native American tribes in Florida



► People from Florida



► Politics of Florida



► Science and technology in Florida



► Florida society



► Sports in Florida



► Tourist attractions in Florida



► Transportation in Florida



► Wikipedia books on Florida



► Images of Florida



► Florida stubs












edit  
Selected biography



Carl Graham Fisher (January 12, 1874 – July 15, 1939) was an American entrepreneur. Despite having severe astigmatism, he became a seemingly tireless pioneer and promoter of the automotive, auto racing, and real estate development industries. Regarded as a promotional genius for most of his life, in the late 19th century, he became a bicycle enthusiast and became involved in bicycle racing and later auto racing. After being injured in stunts, he helped develop paved racetracks and roadways. An Indiana native, Fisher operated what is believed to be the first automobile dealership in the United States and he helped organize the Indianapolis Motor Speedway.
In 1913, Fisher conceived and helped develop the Lincoln Highway, the first paved road planned across the entire United States. A convoy trip a few year later by the U.S. Army along Fisher's Lincoln Highway was a major influence upon then Lt. Col. Dwight D. Eisenhower years later in championing the Interstate Highway System during his presidency in the 1950s. Carl Fisher followed the east-west Lincoln Highway in 1914 with the conception of the north-south Dixie Highway, which first led from Indianapolis, and eventually extended in several northern branches from the Mid-West U.S. at the Canadian borders to southern mainland Florida. Under his leadership, the initial portion was completed within a single year, and he led an automobile caravan to Florida from Indiana.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know?



...that after going bankrupt in 1891, the Georgia Southern and Florida Railway was reorganized as the Georgia Southern and Florida Railway in 1895 and was mostly under the control of the Southern Railway?
...that Herlong Airport was named the Florida Department of Transportation's General Aviation Airport of the Year in 2001 in recognition of their improvements?
...that wine grapes were grown earlier in Florida than any other place in the United States for the usage of making Florida wine?




...Archive/Nominations



More...










edit  
Wikiprojects





You are invited to participate in WikiProject Florida, a WikiProject dedicated to developing and improving articles about Florida.




Main project


WikiProject Florida


Sub-projects


WikiProject Jacksonville
WikiProject Miami
WikiProject Tampa
WikiProject FIU
WikiProject FSU
WikiProject UCF
WikiProject UF
Florida State Roads






edit  
Selected quote







While traveling near Tampa, Florida I passed the "Jehovah's Witness Assembly Hall" and was struck by the fact that that must be where they make them
— Gene Spafford







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Selected panorama












Credit: Averette



The Seven Mile Bridge, in the Florida Keys, runs over a channel between the Gulf of Mexico and the Florida Strait, connecting Knight's Key (the location of the city of Marathon, Florida) in the Middle Keys to Little Duck Key in the Lower Keys. Among the longest bridges in existence when it was built, it is one of the many bridges on US 1 in the Keys, where the road is called the Overseas Highway.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Quality content




Featured content

1928 Okeechobee Hurricane • William Cooley • Florida Atlantic University • History of Miami, Florida • List of Florida birds • List of Florida hurricanes • List of sister cities in Florida • List of snow events in Florida • List of wild mammal species of Florida • Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Miami • Everglades National Park • Rosewood massacre • Marjory Stoneman Douglas • Restoration of the Everglades • Indigenous people of the Everglades region • Geography and ecology of the Everglades • Draining and development of the Everglades • Tropical Storm Keith (1988)

Good articles


Brothers to the Rescue • Burger King • Casey Donovan (porn star) • Florida International University • Florida State University • University of Central Florida • Fort Lauderdale, Florida • Hurricane Charley • Hurricane Ivan • Key Biscayne • Miami River (Florida) • Osborne Reef • Super Bowl XLI • Mary McLeod Bethune • Against All Odds (2005) • Key Biscayne • Port Charlotte High School • Shawn Lonsdale • More...




edit  
Things you can do




Requested articles: Bent Tree Elementary School • University Christian School
Cleanup and, if possible, expand stub articles
Write articles relating to Florida if you see a redlink and know the article meets Wikipedia's notability guideline
Help suggest additional content for this portal
Help assess those articles about Florida that have yet to be assessed





edit  
Topics





Counties: Alachua • Baker • Bay • Bradford • Brevard • Broward • Calhoun • Charlotte • Citrus • Clay • Collier • Columbia • DeSoto • Dixie • Duval • Escambia • Flagler • Franklin • Gadsen • Gilchrist • Glades • Gul • Hamilton • Hardee • Hendry• Hernando • Highlands • Hillsborough • Holmes • Indian River • Jackson • Jefferson • Lafayette • Lake • Lee • Leon • Levy • Liberty • Madison • Manatee • Marion • Martin • Miami-Dade • Monroe • Nassau • Okaloosa • Okeechobee • Orange • Osceola • Palm Beach • Pasco • Pinellas • Polk • Putnam • Saint Johns • Saint Lucie • Santa Rosa • Sarasota• Seminole• Sumter • Suwannee • Taylor• Union • Volusia • Wakulla • Walton • Washington
Regions of Florida: Apalachee Province • Big Bend • Central Florida • Emerald Coast • First Coast • Florida Heartland • Florida Keys • Florida Panhandle • Florida Suncoast • Fun Coast • Gold Coast • Nature Coast • North Central Florida • Northeast Florida • North Florida • Red Hills Region • Southwest Florida • Space Coast • Tampa Bay Area • Treasure Coast


Education in Florida: Broadway Theater Project • Center for Research and Education in Optics and Lasers • Congrès de la Culture Francaise en Floride • DLLI • FTCE • Florida Comprehensive Assessment Test • Florida Distance Learning Consortium • Florida Literacy Coalition, Inc. • Florida Music Educators Association • High School Competency Test • Silver Knight Awards • Stenotype Institute
Transportation in Florida: Apalachee Parkway • Capital Circle, Tallahassee • Conners Highway • Florida Department of Transportation • Jacksonville Transportation Authority • John Anderson Highway • List of paved Florida bike trails • Miami-Dade Expressway Authority • Northeast Florida Regional Transportation Commission • Orlando-Orange County Expressway Authority • Peninsular Land, Transportation and Manufacturing Company • South Florida Auto Show • SunPass • SunRail • Tampa Bay Area Regional Transportation Authority • Tampa-Hillsborough Expressway Authority • Volusia County Public Transit System







edit  
Related portals











North America
United States
Georgia
Alabama
Bahamas






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Florida&oldid=644094848"					
Categories: Florida stubsUnited States portals by state or territoryFlorida portalsFloridaWikiProject FloridaHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


EspañolFrançaisPortuguês 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 12:37.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.148","walltime":"0.276","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1761,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":85901,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6525,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  172.575      1 -total"," 49.71%   85.789      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.91%   20.553      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.88%   20.494      1 Portal:Florida/Intro"," 10.57%   18.241      1 Template:Top_icon","  9.56%   16.496      1 Template:IPAc-en","  8.23%   14.201      1 Template:Category_handler","  5.55%    9.569     14 Template:Box-header","  4.91%    8.477      8 Portal:Florida/box-header","  4.37%    7.538      1 Portal:Florida/Wikiprojects"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.039","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1506582,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1270","timestamp":"20170210175802","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":50,"wgHostname":"mw1252"});});
