 







Portal:Hong Kong

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




Today is February 6, 2017


Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Hong Kong Portal


















Shortcuts:

P:HK
WP:PHK





Hong Kong is one of the most densely populated regions in the world and famous for its energetic metropolitan area. Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China. The modern city was a British overseas territory from 1842 to 1997. It has a population of seven million and has been continuously occupied for over five millennia.
Despite its high population density, only about 17% of its land is built up, and greenery is everywhere. It is a place of contrasts - frenetically urban adjacent to pristine greenery; extremely rich next to dirt poor; Western culture and Chinese culture. Victoria Harbour is world famous for its splendid nightview from the Peak. The central business district is heavily urbanised with skyscrapers all around, but the country parks and beaches are just kilometres away. Traditional towns and villages, as well as natural reserves, are common in the suburban and rural New Territories, including the outlying islands. Public transport is very efficient, convenient, comfortable and reliable.
Under the Basic Law, its constitution, Hong Kong's government, judicial system, stamps, passports, customs policy, immigration control and currency are to greater or lesser degrees independent of the People's Republic of China's. The rule of the road is different from the rest of China, and it sends its own delegates to various international organisations and sporting events.
The official languages of Hong Kong are English and Chinese, with English widely used in business and education. Most residents speak Cantonese as their mother tongue, followed in significance by English, Mandarin and other Chinese regional dialects, as well as other Asian languages. The popular culture of Hong Kong is best represented by its cuisine, pop music and films. Atheism, Taoism, Buddhism, Christianity & Islam all co-exist in a state of general harmony. Focusing on trade, tourism, banking and finance, Hong Kong is one of the wealthiest economies in the world.
More about Hong Kong...




View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



Ocean Park Hong Kong is a theme park in the Southern District of Hong Kong Island. The marine-themed amusement park covers the area of Wong Chuk Hang and Nam Long Shan, and is located in Hong Kong. Public can go to Ocean Park by taxi or Citybus. The park, ranked seven in 'The World’s Most Popular Amusement Parks’ by Forbes in June 2006, had 4.38 million visitors in the fiscal year 2005/2006. It covers an area of 870,000 square metres. The different parts of the park are connected by a gondola lift system (or cable car system), as well as the world's second longest outdoor escalator.
The theme park currently has over 14 rides and other attractions such as aquariums. Besides housing two roller coasters, Ocean Park also features a Giant panda exhibit, a jelly fish and shark aquarium, as well as a four-story aquarium displaying more than 2000 fishes. The official mascot of Ocean Park is "Whiskers"—a waving sealion. Besides being an amusement park, Ocean Park Hong Kong also operates observatories, well developed laboratories, an education department and a Whales And Dolphins Fund. Ocean Park Hong Kong was the first institution in the world to have success in artificial insemination of bottle nose dolphins, and developed numerous new breeds of goldfish.
More articles...



edit  
Selected biography



Leung Kwok-hung (born 27 March 1956), widely known by his nickname "Long Hair", is a Hong Kong political activist. He is currently a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (Geographical constituency, New Territories East). In 2006, he joined the League of Social Democrats.
He is best known for his long, below shoulder length hair, his frequent and flamboyant public protests, and nearly always wearing a T-shirt with the image of Marxist revolutionary Che Guevara. Leung has vowed not to cut his hair until the government of People's Republic of China apologizes for its crackdown on the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, although it was cut once against his will when he was briefly imprisoned following a political action.
More articles...



edit  
Selected picture for February




Statue of Queen Victoria (foreground) and the skyline (background) visible from Victoria Park

Photo credit: Baycrest

Archive






edit  
Did you know ...






... that Hong Kong's Law Uk (pictured) is the sole surviving village house and the last example of traditional Hakka housing in Chai Wan, a former Hakka village?
... that Madame Tussauds Hong Kong is the oldest permanent wax museum in Asia?
... that the Causeway Bay Typhoon Shelter was the first of its kind in Hong Kong?
... that Sakai Takashi, a General of the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II, was sentenced to death on August 27, 1946 for atrocities committed against civilians and surrendered soldiers in Hong Kong?
... that Millennium City, Hong Kong has skyscrapers numbered 1, 2, 3, and 5, possibly because 4 is considered unlucky?

Archive



edit  
Tasks you can do




Please visit the Hong Kong Wikipedians' discussion board and help to write new Hong Kong-related articles, and expand and improve existing ones.
Visit Wikipedia:WikiProject Hong Kong/Assessment, and help out by assessing unrated Hong Kong articles.
Add the Project Banner to Hong Kong articles around Wikipedia.
Help nominate and select new content for the Hong Kong portal.
Clean up all MTR station pages. They are literally all over the place. Merger information is incomplete. Line pages are a mess too. Two model pages are Tsing Yi Station and Sheung Shui Station. They have a feature special to the station, Station layout, exit, and connections, as well as neighbouring stations.





edit  
Related projects







Related WikiProjects:



China



Hong Kong



Macau






Associated Wikimedia:



Dictionary definitions



Textbooks



Quotations



Source texts



Images and media



News stories



Learning resources









edit  
Related portals





United Kingdom



British Empire



Japan



China



Macau



Taiwan








edit  
Hong Kong topics





History

History of Hong Kong - Timeline of Hong Kong history - Prehistoric Hong Kong - History of Hong Kong under Imperial China - History of Colonial Hong Kong (1800s–1930s) - Japanese occupation of Hong Kong - 1950s in Hong Kong - 1960s in Hong Kong - 1970s in Hong Kong - 1980s in Hong Kong - 1990s in Hong Kong - Transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong - 2000s in Hong Kong - Aviation history of Hong Kong - History of bus transport in Hong Kong

Government and law

Politics of Hong Kong - Hong Kong Basic Law - Government of Hong Kong - Legislative Council of Hong Kong - Elections in Hong Kong - List of political parties in Hong Kong - Executive Council of Hong Kong - Chief Executive of Hong Kong - Principal Officials Accountability System - Political Appointments System in Hong Kong - Government departments and agencies in Hong Kong - Judiciary of Hong Kong - Court of Final Appeal (Hong Kong) - District Council of Hong Kong - Human rights in Hong Kong - Foreign relations of Hong Kong - Democratic development in Hong Kong

Cityscape

Districts of Hong Kong - List of cities and towns in Hong Kong - List of areas of Hong Kong - List of villages in Hong Kong - Declared monuments of Hong Kong - Architecture of Hong Kong - List of buildings and structures in Hong Kong -  List of tallest buildings in Hong Kong

Geography

Geography of Hong Kong - Climate of Hong Kong - Geology of Hong Kong - Ecology of Hong Kong - Air pollution in Hong Kong - List of bays in Hong Kong - Beaches of Hong Kong - List of channels in Hong Kong - Country parks and conservation in Hong Kong - List of harbours in Hong Kong - Islands and peninsulas of Hong Kong - List of lakes in Hong Kong - Marine parks in Hong Kong - List of mountains, peaks and hills in Hong Kong - List of urban public parks and gardens in Hong Kong - Plains of Hong Kong - Reservoirs of Hong Kong - Rivers of Hong Kong - Wetlands of Hong Kong

Economy

Economy of Hong Kong - Hong Kong dollar - Hong Kong Monetary Authority - Port of Hong Kong - Agriculture and aquaculture in Hong Kong - Tourism in Hong Kong - List of companies in Hong Kong - Hong Kong Stock Exchange - Hang Seng Index

Demographics

Demographics of Hong Kong - Languages of Hong Kong - Hong Kong Cantonese - Religion in Hong Kong - Public holidays in Hong Kong - Education in Hong Kong - Right of abode issue, Hong Kong - Hong Kong people - Employment in Hong Kong - Census in Hong Kong

Culture

Culture of Hong Kong - Cinema of Hong Kong - Shopping in Hong Kong - Cantonese opera - Hong Kong cuisine - Sport in Hong Kong - Public holidays in Hong Kong - Music of Hong Kong - Media of Hong Kong - List of museums in Hong Kong - Hong Kong cultural policy - Literature of Hong Kong -  Flag of Hong Kong

Infrastructure

Transport in Hong Kong -  Octopus card - Hong Kong International Airport - Health in Hong Kong - Communications in Hong Kong - Hong Kong Police Force - Fire Services Department, Hong Kong



Categories



▼ Hong Kong


► Hong Kong Island



► Kowloon



► New Territories



► New Kowloon



► Hong Kong-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Hong Kong



► Culture of Hong Kong



► Economy of Hong Kong



► Education in Hong Kong



► Environment of Hong Kong



► Flags of Hong Kong



► Geography of Hong Kong



► Geoparks in Hong Kong



► Government of Hong Kong



► Health in Hong Kong



► History of Hong Kong



► Hong Kong-centric



► Images of Hong Kong



► Media in Hong Kong



► Military of Hong Kong



► Organisations based in Hong Kong



► Hong Kong people



► Politics of Hong Kong



► Regional symbols of Hong Kong



► Science and technology in Hong Kong



► Hong Kong society



► Sport in Hong Kong



► Tourist attractions in Hong Kong



► Transport in Hong Kong



► Hong Kong stubs














What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Hong_Kong&oldid=737901386"					
Categories: Hong Kong portalHong KongAsian portalsChina portalsPortals by countryHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikinews 



Languages


العربيةEspañolFrançaisעבריתPortuguêsРусскийதமிழ்Tiếng Việt粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 5 September 2016, at 18:24.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.160","walltime":"0.276","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1416,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":55814,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2441,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  185.905      1 -total"," 24.50%   45.545      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.60%   36.434      1 Portal:Hong_Kong/Related_portals"," 18.85%   35.050      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 13.55%   25.181      6 Template:Related_portal_item"," 12.91%   23.992      1 Portal:Hong_Kong/Intro"," 12.68%   23.576      6 Template:Portal_image"," 11.87%   22.073      1 Template:Shortcut"," 11.05%   20.547      1 Template:Featured_portal","  9.64%   17.921      1 Template:Top_icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.042","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1644028,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1258","timestamp":"20170206162957","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":345,"wgHostname":"mw1258"});});
