 







Portal:Illinois

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Illinois Portal



















Illinois is a state in the Midwestern United States. It is the 5th most populous and 25th largest state, and is often noted as a microcosm of the country. With Chicago and its suburbs in the northeast, small industrial cities and great agricultural productivity in central and northern Illinois, and natural resources like coal, timber, and petroleum in the south, Illinois has a diverse economic base and is a major transportation hub.
Prehistoric Illinois was the site of Cahokia, the largest urban center of the Mississippian culture. The Illinois Confederation, from which the state takes its name, dominated the region during the contact period, but by the time of the American Revolution, only about 2,000 Native Americans and a small number of French villagers inhabited the area. Anglo-American settlers began arriving from Kentucky in the 1810s. Illinois achieved statehood in 1818. Northerners arrived later via the Great Lakes, founding Chicago in the 1830s. The invention of the steel plow and growth of railroads made it possible to profitably farm the rich prairie land of central Illinois, attracting large numbers of immigrant farmers from Germany and Sweden. Northern Illinois provided major support for Illinoisans Abraham Lincoln and Ulysses S. Grant during the American Civil War. By 1900, industry was growing rapidly in the northern cities, along with coal mines in central and southern areas. This industrialization attracted large numbers of immigrants from Eastern and Southern Europe and many African Americans in the Great Migration from the Southern United States, who developed renowned jazz and blues cultures in Chicago.
More about Illinois...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The Banditti of the Prairie, also known as "The Prairie Bandits," "Pirates of the Prairie," "Prairie Pirates," or simply "The Banditti," in the U.S. state of Illinois, were a group of loose-knit outlaw gangs during the early-mid-19th century. Though bands of roving criminals were common in many parts of Illinois, the counties of Lee, DeKalb, Ogle, and Winnebago were especially affected by them. In the year 1841, the escalating pattern of burglary, horse and cattle theft, stagecoach and highway robbery, counterfeiting, and murder associated with the Banditti came to a head in Ogle County. As the crimes continued, local citizens formed bands of vigilantes known as Regulators. The clash between the Banditti and the Regulators in Ogle County resulted in a lynching in Oregon, Illinois and decreased Banditti activity within the county.
Banditti and Regulator activity continued well after the lynching of 1841. Crimes continued, committed by both sides, across northern and central Illinois. The Banditti were involved in the 1845 torture-murder of merchant Colonel George Davenport, the namesake of Davenport, Iowa. Edward Bonney, an amateur detective who hunted down and brought the killers to justice, wrote of his exploits and alibi, which were recounted in his book, Banditti of the Prairies, or the Murderer's Doom!!: A Tale of the Mississippi Valley, published in Chicago in 1850. The outlaw gangs also continued to be active in Lee and Winnebago counties following the events in Oregon.(Read more...)
Suggest • More articles...



edit  
Selected biography



William D. Boyce (June 16, 1858 – June 11, 1929) was an American newspaper man, entrepreneur, magazine publisher, and explorer. He was the founder of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA). Born in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, he acquired a love for the outdoors early in his life. With his first wife, Mary Jane Beacom, he moved to Chicago to pursue his entrepreneurial ambitions. There he established the Mutual Newspaper Publishing Company and the weekly Saturday Blade, which catered to a rural audience and was distributed by thousands of newspaper boys. With his novel employment of newsboys to boost newspaper sales, Boyce's namesake publishing company maintained a circulation of 500,000 copies per week by 1894. Boyce strongly supported worker rights, as demonstrated by his businesses' support of labor unions and his concern for his newsboys' well-being.
Boyce learned about Scouting while passing through London during his first expedition to Africa in 1909. On his return to the United States, he formed the BSA. From its start, Boyce focused the Scouting program on teaching self-reliance, citizenship, resourcefulness, patriotism, obedience, cheerfulness, courage, and courtesy in order "to make men". Boyce received many awards and memorials for his efforts in the U.S. Scouting movement, including the Silver Buffalo Award. (Read more...)
Suggest • More biographies...



edit  
Did you know...



... that before the reversal of Times Film Corporation v. City of Chicago in 1965, U.S. states and municipalities could legally censor films?
... that Marco Mena, the governor-elect of Tlaxcala, was the first Mexican to pursue a master's degree in public policy from the University of Chicago?
... that Mary Elizabeth Rollins Lightner became a plural wife to both Joseph Smith and Brigham Young at the Nauvoo Temple?



... that Chicago Justice's backdoor pilot from Chicago P.D. was based on a true story?
... that bolete mushrooms of the genus Chalciporus, such as C. pseudorubinellus (pictured), are thought to be parasitic?
... that Dwight L. Bush, Sr. was a banker, a bundler, and a businessman before serving as an ambassador?



... that Emily Temple-Wood (pictured) says she will create a Wikipedia article about a woman scientist for every harassing email she receives?


Archive




edit  
Featured content





Articles:

Millennium Park
Ernest Hemingway
Joseph W. Tkach
SS Christopher Columbus
Chicago Board of Trade Building
Lee Smith (baseball)
Michael Jordan
1968 Illinois earthquake
Barack Obama
Lee Smith
Elgin, Illinois, Centennial half dollar
Prairie Avenue
Ronald Reagan
The Smashing Pumpkins
McDonald's Cycle Center
Illinois (Sufjan Stevens album)
Marcus Ward Lyon, Jr.



Pictures:

 







Lists:

List of National Natural Landmarks in Illinois
List of Chicago Landmarks
List of tallest buildings in Chicago
List of MetroLink (St. Louis) stations
Dan Savage bibliography
Chicago Bears seasons
List of Chicago Blackhawks players
List of winners of the Chicago Marathon










edit  
Selected picture





This map shows the approximate extent of the Havana Hopewell culture. The Havana interaction sphere was located in the Illinois River and Mississippi River valleys in Iowa, Illinois, and Missouri from 200 BCE to 400 CE.
Image credit: Taylor H. Thornton
Suggest • More pictures...



edit  
Recent news




December 4, 2016: Amid the Dakota Access Pipeline protests, the Army Corps of Engineers announces that it will not grant an easement for the construction of the Bakken Pipeline, planned to terminate in Patoka, Illinois.
November 15, 2016: Illinois Secretary of State Jesse White announces a new design for the Illinois license plate, to be released over a ten-year period beginning in 2017.
2016 Elections: Voters approve an amendment to the Constitution of Illinois that requires money raised from transportation taxes and fees to be spent exclusively on transportation projects.
2016 Elections: Tammy Duckworth defeats incumbent Mark Kirk in the election for United States Senator from Illinois.
2016 Elections: Hillary Clinton of Park Ridge wins Illinois's electoral votes in the United States Presidential election in Illinois.
2016 Elections: Susana Mendoza wins the special election for Illinois Comptroller, unseating incumbent Leslie Munger.
2016 Elections: The Democratic Party picks up one of Illinois's seats in the United States House of Representatives.
2016 Elections: The Democratic Party maintains its control of both houses of the Illinois General Assembly.



November 2, 2016: The Chicago Cubs defeat the Cleveland Indians in seven games to win the World Series (pictured) for the first time since 1908.
October 23, 2016: The Chicago Cubs win the 2016 National League Championship Series, defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games to capture the National League pennant for the first time since 1945.


Archive



edit  
Categories


Select [+] to view subcategories



▼ Illinois


► Illinois-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Illinois



► Communications in Illinois



► Illinois culture



► Demographics of Illinois



► Economy of Illinois



► Education in Illinois



► Environment of Illinois



► Geography of Illinois



► Government of Illinois



► Health in Illinois



► History of Illinois



► Landmarks in Illinois



► Illinois law



► Military in Illinois



► Native American tribes in Illinois



► People from Illinois



► Politics of Illinois



► Science and technology in Illinois



► Illinois society



► Sports in Illinois



► Tourist attractions in Illinois



► Transportation in Illinois



► Wikipedia books on Illinois



► Images of Illinois



► Illinois stubs










edit  
WikiProjects




US-related WikiProjects

Illinois


U.S. Roads

Illinois State Routes


Cities

Chicago


Sports

Chicago Bears
Chicago Bulls
Chicago Cubs




What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Related portals





United States

Chicago






Alaska

Arizona

California

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii





Indiana

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maryland

Minnesota

Nebraska





New Jersey

New Mexico

North Carolina

Oklahoma

Oregon

Puerto Rico





South Carolina

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Wisconsin











Topics




edit  
Topics





Cities: Aurora • Champaign • Chicago • Cicero • Decatur • Elgin • Joliet • Marion • Naperville • Rockford • Peoria • Springfield • Waukegan
Culture: Chicago Blues Festival • Chicago Jazz Festival • Chicago Symphony Orchestra • Cornerstone Festival • Dillo Day • Illinois Shakespeare Festival • Lollapalooza • Lyric Opera of Chicago • Music • Pitchfork Music Festival • Ravinia Festival • Taste of Chicago
Education: Higher education • Secondary education
Government: Constitution • Economy • Politics • Rod Blagojevich • State Capitol


History: Chicago • Illiniwek • Illinois-Wabash Company • Illinois Territory • Abraham Lincoln • Black Hawk War • Cahokia • 1871 Great Chicago Fire • Makataimeshekiakiak • Miami • Mississippian culture • Northwest Territory • Potawatomi • Pat Quinn • Sauk
People: Illinoisans • Governors of Illinois • Mayors of Chicago • Longest Serving Mayor in Illinois
Sports: Chicago Bandits • Chicago Bears • Chicago Bulls • Chicago Cubs • Chicago Fire • Chicago Rush • Chicago Sky • Chicago White Sox • Chicago Wolves • The Fighting Illini • Illinois State Redbirds • Northwestern Wildcats • Peoria Rivermen • Rockford IceHogs • Rockford Thunder • Southern Illinois Miners • Southern Illinois University Salukis • Chicago Yacht Club Race to Mackinac • Chicago Marathon













Things you can do




edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests :

Bank of Illinois, Executive branch of the government of the State of Illinois, Fort Gage, History of European exploration in Illinois, Illinois pension crisis, Jacob Loose, Morris Selz, Pre-Columbian history of Illinois, Wayne Motley, Western Wheel Company


Assess :

Category:Unassessed WikiProject Illinois articles and Category:Unknown-importance WikiProject Illinois articles


Collaborate :

WikiProject Illinois/Collaboration: Grafton, Illinois; WikiProject Chicago/COTW: Bobby Hull


Copyedit :

Category:WikiProject Illinois articles needing attention


Deletion sorting :

WikiProject Deletion sorting/Illinois


Expand :

Government of Illinois, expand bios on List of Governors of Illinois, Casimir Pulaski Day, Constitution of Illinois, Democratic Party of Illinois, Economy of Illinois, Flag and seal of Illinois, "Illinois", Illinois Republican Party, Illinois Secretary of State


Featured article candidates :

Improve to Featured Article status - Illinois, Springfield, Illinois


Infobox :

Category:Illinois articles needing infoboxes


Maintain :

Portal:Illinois


Map :

Category:Wikipedia requested maps in Illinois


Photo :

Category:Wikipedia requested photographs in Illinois


Stubs :

Category:Illinois stubs, Category:Illinois geography stubs, Category:Illinois politician stubs, Category:Illinois school stubs


Unreferenced :

Unreferenced BLPs and Category:Unreferenced WikiProject Illinois articles


Other :

Find articles that belong in Category:Illinois or its subcategories, and add them to the category; tag those articles with {{WikiProject Illinois}} on their talk pages, as well as any new, untagged articles that might appear in one of those categories.

















Associated Wikimedia




edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species
















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Illinois&oldid=737082505"					
Categories: Illinois portalIllinois portalsUnited States portals by state or territoryWikiProject IllinoisHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


EspañolFrançais 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 31 August 2016, at 17:15.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.256","walltime":"0.469","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2024,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":90005,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":9726,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  234.478      1 -total"," 24.04%   56.362      3 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 21.36%   50.076      1 Portal:Illinois/Things_you_can_do"," 19.40%   45.480      1 Wikipedia:WikiProject_Illinois/to_do"," 17.85%   41.862      1 Template:Tasks"," 12.98%   30.425      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 12.30%   28.844      1 Wikipedia:WikiProject_Illinois/Collaboration/Current"," 11.61%   27.217      1 Template:Top_icon","  8.53%   20.004      1 Template:Category_handler","  6.86%   16.087      1 Template:Purge"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.028","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":969076,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1188","timestamp":"20170206173143","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":59,"wgHostname":"mw1269"});});
