 







Portal:Chicago

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





edit  
The Chicago Portal



























Chicago's population of approximately 3 million people and its metropolitan area of over 9 million people make it the third-most populous city and metropolitan area in the United States. Adjacent to Lake Michigan, it is the largest Great Lakes city and among the world's 25 largest urban areas by population. Incorporated as a city in 1837 after being founded in 1833 at the site of a portage, it became a transportation hub in North America and the financial capital of the Midwest. Since the World's Fair of 1893, it has been regarded as one of the ten most influential cities in the world. For example, diverse events such as Chicago Pile-1, the first man made nuclear reactor, and Chicago school architecture have changed human history, and the way urban spaces are organized. Chicago boasts some of the world's tallest buildings (Willis Tower, and Trump International Hotel and Tower). The University of Chicago is a leader in many fields and has contributed to academic thought, such as the Chicago school of economics or Chicago school of sociology.
Today, Chicago has diverse cultural offerings: teams from each of the major league sports (Bears, Blackhawks, Bulls, Cubs, and White Sox), a financial district anchored by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on LaSalle Street in the Chicago Board of Trade Building, and an arts culture anchored by the Art Institute of Chicago and Millennium Park as well as Chicago Landmarks such as Wrigley Field. The Magnificent Mile is a fitting tribute for a city that has revolutionized retail merchandising with mail order catalogs, the money-back guarantee, bridal registry and using posted prices on goods.
Chicago hosts O'Hare (the world's second busiest) and Midway International Airports as well as the renowned 'L' rapid transit system. Chicago was once the capital of the railroad industry and the nation's meatpacking had its hub at the Union Stock Yards. Chicago has seen the influence of Al Capone. Recent members of the Cook County Democratic Party from Chicago include Chicago Mayors Richard J. Daley and his son Richard M. Daley, Chicago's first African-American Mayor, Harold Washington, the first African-American female United States Senator, Carol Moseley Braun, and the first African-American United States President, former Senator Barack Obama.


More about Chicago...






View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The Frank Borman Expressway is an east-west highway in northwest portion of the U.S. state of Indiana, carrying Interstate 80, Interstate 94, and U.S. Highway 6, as well as a short section of U.S. Highway 41. The designation begins from the Illinois state line east to the Lake/Porter County Line, just east of the junction with the Indiana Toll Road. The Borman Expressway has been identified in federal transportation legislation as part of High Priority Corridor 18, Segment 27, making current and future construction projects on I-94 eligible for federal funding in association with extending Interstate 69 to the Texas/Mexico border. The Borman Expressway is a major truck thoroughfare, providing a free alternative to the Indiana Toll Road/Chicago Skyway combination (Interstate 90) to the north. Originally constructed in segments starting in the 1950s, with its Illinois counterpart, the Kingery Expressway, reconstruction of the expressway began in 2004. The Borman Expressway is named after Frank Borman, commander of the Apollo 8 space mission, who was born in Gary.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Ari Levinson (Autumnfire), minor cleanup edit by Chicago god



Barack Obama delivering a speech at the University of Southern California, October 28, 2006.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected list



This is a complete list of Chicago Bears head coaches. There have been 16 head coaches for the Chicago Bears, including coaches for the Decatur Staleys (1919–1920) and Chicago Staleys (1921), of the National Football League (NFL). The Bears franchise was founded as the Decatur Staleys, a charter member of the American Professional Football Association. The team moved to Chicago in 1921, and changed their name to the Bears in 1922, the same year the American Professional Football Association (APFA) changed its name to the National Football League.
The Chicago Bears have played over one thousand games. In those games, five different coaches have won NFL championships with the team: George Halas in 1921, 1933, 1940, 1941, 1946, and 1963, Ralph Jones in 1932, Hunk Anderson and Luke Johnsos in 1943, and Mike Ditka in 1985. George Halas is the only coach to have more than one tenure and is the all-time leader in games coached and wins, while Ralph Jones leads all coaches in winning percentage with .706. Of the 16 Bears coaches, three have been elected into the Pro Football Hall of Fame: George Halas, Paddy Driscoll, and Mike Ditka. The current coach is Lovie Smith, who was hired on January 14, 2004. Statistics correct as of December 30, 2007, after the end of the 2007 NFL season. (Read more...)



edit  
Categories






▼ Chicago


► Chicago-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Chicago



► Crime in Chicago



► Culture of Chicago



► Demographics of Chicago



► Economy of Chicago



► Education in Chicago



► Ethnic groups in Chicago



► Geography of Chicago



► Government of Chicago



► Healthcare in Chicago



► History of Chicago



► Images of Chicago



► Media in Chicago



► Organizations based in Chicago



► People from Chicago



► Ships built in Chicago



► Sports in Chicago



► Tourism in Chicago



► Tourist attractions in Chicago



► Transportation in Chicago



► Wikipedia books on Chicago



► Works about Chicago



► Chicago stubs



► Aurora templates



► Chicago templates










edit  
WikiProjects




US-related WikiProjects

Illinois


U.S. Roads

Illinois State Routes


Cities

Chicago


Sports

Chicago Bears
Chicago Bulls
Chicago Cubs




What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected biography



Kirk James Hinrich is an American professional basketball player, currently starting at point guard for the NBA's Chicago Bulls. He is also a member of the USA National Team.
Hinrich was exposed to basketball at an early age, due to his father, Jim, being a high school basketball coach in Sioux City, Hinrich's father coached him from the third grade through high school. As a high school senior, Hinrich was named the 1999 Co-Iowa Mr. Basketball, along with future college teammate and roommate, Nick Collison. Hinrich originally committed to play basketball at Iowa State but when the coach at the time Tim Floyd took the head coaching position for the NBA's Chicago Bulls, Hinrich changed his mind and decided to attend the University of Kansas. While playing college basketball for Kansas, Hinrich helped his team reach the Final Four in the NCAA basketball tournament in 2002 and the championship game against the Carmelo Anthony led Syracuse University in 2003. Hinrich played all four years at Kansas before being drafted to the NBA. Hinrich is often referred to as "Captain Kirk" due to the fact that he has been voted a team captain for the Bulls for four consecutive years.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Quote



"Chicago—is—oh well a façade of skyscrapers facing a lake, and behind the façade every type of dubiousness." — E. M. Forster



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected landmark



The DeKalb County Courthouse is located in the county seat of DeKalb County, Illinois, U.S.A., the city of Sycamore. The Classical Revival structure sits on a square facing Illinois Route 64 as it passes through the city. The current courthouse was constructed in 1905 amid controversy over where the courthouse and thus, ultimately, the county seat would be located. The current building is the third structure to bear the name "DeKalb County Courthouse." DeKalb County's Courthouse still serves as the county's primary judicial center and is a contributing property to the Sycamore Historic District. The district joined the National Register of Historic Places in 1978. As the county's primary courthouse for over 100 years, the site has been host to many trials, including prominent murder cases. The building is cast in the Classical Revival architectural style and contains elements common to that style. Stained glass, columns and a pediment are among the more noticeable features at a glance. The rear facade of the building is designed to resemble a temple and also features stained glass windows. A stone porte-cochere covers the rear driveway. Inside the building's third floor courtroom is more stained glass, in the form of a skylight. During the early 1980s a made for television movie had scenes filmed in the DeKalb County Courthouse's courtroom.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News

Wikinews Chicago, Illinois portal


January 18: Former NASA astronaut Eugene Cernan dies aged 82
January 12: U.S. President Obama's farewell address focuses on accomplishment
September 26: Chicago air traffic facility evacuated for basement fire
June 23: Spelling error appears on Medill School of Journalism diplomas





edit  
Did you know?







...that Meigs Field in Chicago, Illinois, sits on the site of Burnham Park (pictured), which was a serious contender to host the United Nations Headquarters?

...that Rush Street, now known for its nightlife, has had four bridges over the Chicago River connecting the Loop to the Near North Side and once handled 50% of Chicago's north-south traffic?
...that the Fama-DFA Prize is named after University of Chicago Graduate School of Business professor Eugene Fama, a financial economist whose publications are the foundation of efficient market theory?
...that architect John M. Van Osdel drafted the plans for the first architect-designed house in Chicago, formed Chicago's first architectural firm and ensured passage of Chicago's first building codes?





...Archive/Nominations



More...











edit  
Featured content


Featured articles


 1880 Greenback National Convention
 1880 Republican National Convention
 Alpha Kappa Alpha
 James T. Aubrey
 Avery Coonley School
 Ann Bannon
 Moe Berg
 William D. Boyce
 BP Pedestrian Bridge
 Guy Bradley
 Avery Brundage
 Mike Capel
 Chicago Board of Trade Building
 Chicago Pile-1
 SS Christopher Columbus
 Wesley Clark
 Hillary Clinton
 Cloud Gate
 Columbian half dollar
 Richard Cordray
 Cross of Gold speech
 Crown Fountain
 Disco Demolition Night
 Walt Disney
 Mr. Dooley
 Elgin, Illinois, Centennial half dollar
 Ray Emery
 Exelon Pavilions
 Enrico Fermi
 Theoren Fleury
 Fountain of Time
 Emma Goldman
 E. Urner Goodman
 Otto Graham
 Orval Grove
 Harris Theater (Chicago)
 Dominik Hašek
 Ernest Hemingway
 Rogers Hornsby
 Juwan Howard
 Illinois (Sufjan Stevens album)
 Harold Innis
 Interstate 355
 Isabella quarter
 Jay Pritzker Pavilion
 David A. Johnston
 Michael Jordan
 2011 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final
 Kenesaw Mountain Landis
 Manhattan Project
 McCormick Tribune Plaza & Ice Rink
 McDonald's Cycle Center
 Midtown Madness
 Millennium Park
 Monadnock Building
 Money in the Bank (2011)
 Howie Morenz
 Madman Muntz
 Nashville Sounds
 Barack Obama
 Oliver Typewriter Company
 William Sterling Parsons
 Perfect Dark
 Pioneer Zephyr
 Prairie Avenue
 CM Punk
 Hilary Putnam
 Arthur W. Radford
 Nancy Reagan
 Ronald Reagan
 William S. Sadler
 Antonin Scalia
 September Morn
 Shimer College
 Louis Slotin
 The Smashing Pumpkins
 Lee Smith (baseball)
 Georg Solti
 Edward Teller
 Jim Thome
 Tiny Thompson
 Jim Thorpe
 The Time Traveler's Wife
 Joseph W. Tkach
 Trump International Hotel and Tower (Chicago)
 Thurman Tucker
 Kurt Vonnegut
 Weird Tales
 Wilco


Featured lists


 1966 NBA Expansion Draft
 List of Alpha Kappa Alpha sisters
 List of Benet Academy alumni
 List of Chicago Bulls head coaches
 List of Chicago Bulls seasons
 List of Chicago Cubs Opening Day starting pitchers
 List of Chicago White Sox Opening Day starting pitchers
 Disturbed discography
 List of Chicago Bears seasons
 List of Chicago Landmarks
 List of tallest buildings in Chicago
 List of Chicago Bears head coaches
 List of Chicago Blackhawks head coaches
 List of Chicago Blackhawks players
 List of Chicago Cubs first-round draft picks
 List of Chicago Cubs managers
 List of Chicago White Sox first-round draft picks
 List of Chicago White Sox managers
 List of winners of the Chicago Marathon
 Rise Against discography
 Dan Savage bibliography
 Smoking Popes discography
 List of Washington Wizards head coaches
 Kanye West discography


A-Class articles


 Dennis Hastert
 Metallurgical Laboratory


Good articles


 108 North State Street
 1998 National League Wild Card tie-breaker game
 2008 American League Central tie-breaker game
 2013 Chicago Bears season
 2015 Chicago Bears season
 Harold Agnew
 Joe Aiello
 Vic Aldridge
 Cliff Alexander
 All the Way (Eddie Vedder song)
 Samuel King Allison
 Luis Walter Alvarez
 American Airlines Flight 191
 Argo Tea
 Arts Club of Chicago
 AT&T Plaza
 Emilie Autumn
 Myrtle Bachelder
 Charlie Baker
 Paul Bako
 Ernie Banks
 Michael Barrett (baseball)
 John Barrowman
 Baseball's Sad Lexicon
 Batman Begins
 Benet Academy
 Sean Bennett
 Doug Bentley
 Max Bentley
 Joseph Berrios
 Mary McLeod Bethune
 Blackstone Library
 Timothy Blackstone
 The Blues Brothers (film)
 Boeing Galleries
 Zach Bogosian
 Frenchy Bordagaray
 Jim Bottomley
 Bound for Glory IV
 Rene Bourque
 Jay Bouwmeester
 Milton Bradley (baseball)
 Tim Breslin
 Roger Bresnahan
 Frank Brimsek
 Marion L. Brittain
 Broadway Limited
 Fawn M. Brodie
 Jalen Brunson
 Bud Billiken Parade and Picnic
 Jon Burge
 Edward M. Burke
 Burnham Park (Chicago)
 Burnham Pavilions
 Paul Butterfield
 Peter Bynoe
 Lynton K. Caldwell
 Calgary Cannons
 Billy Cannon
 Dan Castellaneta
 Jimmy Chamberlin
 Frank Chance
 Katie Chapman
 Bob Chappuis
 Chase Promenade
 Chasing Vermeer
 Chevelle (band)
 2003 Chicago balcony collapse
 Chicago bid for the 2016 Summer Olympics
 Chicago Marathon
 Chicago Options Associates
 Chicago race riot of 1919
 Chicago Spire
 Chicago Theatre
 University of Chicago
 Gery Chico
 Robert F. Christy
 Sandra Cisneros
 Allie Clark
 Stephen Colbert
 Ellis Coleman
 Sherron Collins
 Roy Conacher
 Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago
 The Cool Kids
 Paul Cornell (lawyer)
 Jon Corzine
 George Cressey
 Roger Crozier
 Cubs Win Flag
 Cumberland station (CTA)
 Trent Daavettila
 Steve Dahl
 Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad
 John P. Daley
 Richard M. Daley
 The Dark Knight (film)
 Anthony Davis (basketball)
 Davis Theater
 Billy DeBeck
 Adam DeBus
 DeKalb County Courthouse (Illinois)
 Joseph DeLee
 Eugene V. Debs
 Paul Des Jardien
 Elizabeth Dilling
 Divergent (novel)
 Larry Doby
 Douglas Park (Chicago)
 Maurice Douglass
 Robert Dover (equestrian)
 DuSable Museum of African American History
 Drake Dunsmore
 Kenny Easley
 Roger Ebert
 Huw Edwards (conductor)
 Ninian Edwards
 Christian Ehrhoff
 Eliel Saarinen's Tribune Tower design
 Rahm Emanuel
 Encyclopedia of Chicago
 Johnny Evers
 Extreme Rules (2012)
 Fabyan Windmill
 David Falk
 Fall Out Boy
 February 2007 North American blizzard
 Scott Feldman
 Bob Ferguson (infielder)
 Ferris Bueller's Day Off
 Tina Fey
 Lupe Fiasco
 Norman Finkelstein
 Bobby Fischer
 Val Logsdon Fitch
 Fountain of the Great Lakes
 James Franck
 Ted Frank
 Franklin Center (Chicago)
 Milton Friedman
 Sam Fuld
 Lu Gambino
 Mike Garcia (baseball, born 1923)
 Charlie Gardiner (ice hockey)
 Pau Gasol
 John Warne Gates
 Gerald Ratner Athletics Center
 Charlie Getzein
 Barbara Gittings
 Go, Cubs, Go
 Erving Goffman
 Irving Gottesman
 Kevin Grady
 Grand Central Station (Chicago)
 Curtis Granderson
 Grant Park Music Festival
 Alvin C. Graves
 The Great Ziegfeld
 Rex Grossman
 Ernest Groth
 Gary Gygax
 William P. Halliday
 Remy Hamilton
 Richard Hamming
 John Marshall Harlan II
 Harold Washington Cultural Center
 Abram Lincoln Harris
 Gabby Hartnett
 David Hattner
 Haymarket affair
 Haystacks (Monet series)
 Bill Haywood
 Heller House
 Mitch Henderson
 Rickey Henderson
 Devin Hester
 Jason Heyward
 Historic Michigan Boulevard District
 Brett Hull
 Hull House
 Philip Humber
 John Hummer
 Otto Frederick Hunziker
 Hyde Park Township, Cook County, Illinois
 Illinois Route 22
 Isaac Folorunso Adewole
 Jesse Jackson Jr.
 Mike Jackson (right-handed pitcher)
 Sandi Jackson
 Wadsworth Jarrell
 Joffrey Tower
 Rashid Johnson
 Jason Jones (programmer)
 Percy Lavon Julian
 Cato June
 Ted Kaczynski
 Mike Kafka
 Maria Kanellis
 Chief Keef
 George Kelly (baseball)
 Frances Oldham Kelsey
 Don Kindt
 Kinzie Street railroad bridge
 Jason Kipnis
 Judith Krug
 Rusty Kuntz
 Lakeshore East
 Geoffrey A. Landis
 Bill Lange
 Mat Latos
 Jimmy Lavender
 Ernest Lawrence
 Hughie Lehman
 Bob Lemon
 Willard Libby
 Jon Lieber
 Joe Lillard
 Lincolnshire, Illinois
 The Litigators
 Carli Lloyd
 Kenny Lofton
 Loose Fur
 Bobby Lowe
 Sid Luckman
 Lurie Garden
 Evan Lysacek
 Magnificent Mile
 Gerri Major
 Man Enters the Cosmos
 Man of Steel (film)
 Gus Mancuso
 John Marburger
 Marching Men
 Venric Mark
 Marquette Building (Chicago)
 Marshall Field and Company Building
 Pepper Martin
 Dave Martinez
 Brownie Mary
 Demetri McCamey
 George McGovern
 Erin McLeod
 Winsor McCay
 McKinsey & Company
 Meet the Parents
 Megitza
 Merle Reskin Theatre
 Metallurgical Laboratory
 Michael Jordan statue
 Michigan Avenue Bridge
 Mid-October 2007 tornado outbreak
 Midway International Airport
 George Mikan
 Quincy Miller
 Brandon Minor
 Mirth & Girth
 Milan C. Miskovsky
 David Molk
 Ryan Mollett
 E'Twaun Moore
 Bill Mosienko
 Kit Mueller
 Pete Muldoon
 John Benjamin Murphy
 My Kind of Town
 Near South Side, Chicago
 Phil Nevin
 George Nicol (baseball)
 No Mercy (2007)
 Christopher Nolan
 North Bank Depot Buildings
 North Coast Hiawatha
 Northern Illinois University shooting
 Michelle Obama
 Phil Ochs
 Jahlil Okafor
 Bert Olmstead
 Patrick Omameh
 Bobby Orr
 Park Grill
 Anthony Parker
 Jabari Parker
 George N. Parks
 Jiggs Parrott
 Ara Parseghian
 Walter Payton
 Roger Peckinpaugh
 Rob Pelinka
 People v. Aguilar
 Neifi Pérez
 Perfect Dark (2010 video game)
 Petrillo Music Shell
 Philip Humber's perfect game
 Jeannette Piccard
 Billy Pierce
 Pill Hill (play)
 Pilot (The Playboy Club)
 Ping Tom Memorial Park
 Wally Pipp
 Jean Baptiste Point du Sable
 Irving Kane Pond
 Toni Preckwinkle
 LeRoy Prinz
 Prison Break
 Pui Tak Center
 Casimir Pulaski
 Pulaski station (CTA Orange Line)
 Radioland Murders
 Rainbow/PUSH
 Megan Rapinoe
 Jerry Reinsdorf
 Renaissance Blackstone Hotel
 The Reputation
 Rise Against
 River North Point
 Garland Rivers
 Road to Perdition
 Roanoke Building
 Rock N Roll McDonald's
 John D. Rockefeller
 Dennis Rodman
 John W. Rogers Jr.
 Jimmy Rollins
 Rookery Building
 Arnold Ross
 Bruno Rossi
 Gunther E. Rothenberg
 Red Ruffing
 Rush Street (Chicago)
 Lou Saban
 Sauganash Hotel
 Jon Scheyer
 O'Brien Schofield
 Jordan Schroeder
 Arthur Schultz
 Schulze Baking Company Plant
 Schwa (restaurant)
 David Schwimmer
 Stuart Scott
 Louis J. Sebille
 Second Generation (advertisement)
 Pat Seerey
 Sense8
 Alex Seropian
 Orator Shafer
 Clark Shaughnessy
 Helen Shiller
 John Shurna
 Silver Springs State Fish and Wildlife Area
 Josh Sims
 Sixteen (restaurant)
 Cyril Stanley Smith
 Patti Smith
 Society for Human Rights
 William A. Spinks
 Spirit Fruit Society
 Joseph Staten
 Bill Stein
 Jack Stewart (ice hockey)
 Bernard Stone
 John Stossel
 Streeterville
 Tai Streets
 Elmer Stricklett
 Matt Striebel
 SummerSlam (1994)
 Billy Sunday
 Super Bowl XLI
 Gary Suter
 Lee Sweatt
 Christopher Tanev
 Charles Thom
 Emmett Till
 Joe Tinker
 Tintin in America
 Joe Tipton
 Tonight, Tonight (The Smashing Pumpkins song)
 Torpedo...Los!
 Transformers: Dark of the Moon
 Lennie Tristano
 Tucker: The Man and His Dream
 Evan Turner
 Tyler Ulis
 Jim Umbricht
 Union Stock Yards
 Up! Live in Chicago
 Harold Urey
 Juan Uribe
 Brian Urlacher
 Virgin Hotels Chicago
 Dwyane Wade
 Wanted (2008 film)
 Donovan Warren
 Washington Park, Chicago (community area)
 Washington Park (Chicago park)
 Washington Park Court District
 Washington Park Race Track
 Washington Park Subdivision
 Washington Square Park (Chicago)
 Alvin M. Weinberg
 Tom Weisner
 Kanye West
 Matthew West
 When Harry Met Sally...
 Eli Whiteside
 Hoyt Wilhelm
 William W. Powers State Recreation Area
 Ned Williamson
 Hack Wilson
 Al Wistert
 Whitey Wistert
 Greg Wohlwend
 Wolf Point, Chicago
 Leona Woods
 Wrigley Square
 Kevin Youkilis
 Hoylande Young


Featured topics


 Millennium Park


Good topics


 Timothy Blackstone
 Washington Park, Chicago


Featured portals


 Portal:Chicago


Featured pictures


 File:20070616 Chris Young visits Wrigley (4)-edit3.jpg
 File:20090524 Buildings along Chicago River line the south border of the Near North Side and Streeterville and the north border of Chicago Loop, Lakeshore East and Illinois Center.jpg
 File:Abbey Lincoln in 1966.jpg
 File:Apollo 17 Cernan on moon.jpg
 File:Barack Obama family portrait 2011.jpg
 File:Barack Obama with artistic gymnastic McKayla Maroney 2.jpg
 File:CTA Night.jpg
 File:CTA loop junction.jpg
 File:CTA red line rerouted.jpg
 File:Calle E Monroe St, Chicago, Illinois, Estados Unidos, 2012-10-20, DD 04.jpg
 File:Cardiss Collins - Restoration.jpg
 File:Chicago Grant Park night pano.jpg
 File:Chicago Skyline Hi-Res.jpg
 File:Chicago Theatre blend.jpg
 File:Chicago sunrise 1.jpg
 File:Chicago top down view.png
 File:Democratic presidential ticket 1864b.jpg
 File:Ed Walsh portrait 1911.jpg
 File:EdwardTeller1958 fewer smudges.jpg
 File:Ernest Hemingway in Milan 1918 retouched 3.jpg
 File:Grant Park, Chicago, Illinois, Estados Unidos, 2012-10-20, DD 03.jpg
 File:Great presidential puzzle2.jpg
 File:IIT Machinery Hall.jpg
 File:James D Watson.jpg
 File:Jane Addams - Bain News Service.jpg
 File:Jesse Jackson, half-length portrait of Jackson seated at a table, July 1, 1983 edit.jpg
 File:Johnny Evers 1910 FINAL2sh.jpg
 File:Livestock chicago 1947.jpg
 File:Locomotives-Roundhouse2.jpg
 File:Margaret D. Foster, in Lab, 4 October 1919.jpg
 File:Marina City, Chicago, Illinois, Estados Unidos, 2012-10-20, DD 01.jpg
 File:Mary Garrity - Ida B. Wells-Barnett - Google Art Project - restoration crop.jpg
 File:Michelle Obama 2013 official portrait.jpg
 File:Muhammad Ali NYWTS.jpg
 File:Official Portrait of President Reagan 1981.jpg
 File:Robinhunicke at thatgamecompany photoshoot, August 2009.jpg
 File:Ronald Reagan with cowboy hat 12-0071M edit.jpg
 File:Samuel Reshevsky versus the World.JPG
 File:Shoeless Joe Jackson by Conlon, 1913.jpeg
 File:Stefan Heym (1982).jpg
 File:Tuskegee airman2.jpg
 File:Voltairine de Cleyre (Age 35).jpg






edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests :


See redlinks at WP:CHIFTD



Assess :


Unassessed Chicago articles
Unknown-importance Chicago articles



Categorization :


Make sure all categories related to the project are listed at WP:CHIBOTCATS so that the bot can add {{WikiProject Chicago}} banners on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.



Cleanup :


List of Chicago Landmarks - Create articles for redlinks and keep the list current by monitoring city of Chicago press releases
List of Registered Historic Places in Chicago - Create articles and take pictures.
See Chicago articles needing attention



Copyedit :


Chicago and other WP:FFAs and Delisted WP:GAs



Expand :


Museum Campus



Featured article candidates :


Help the Current featured topic drive and improve all articles listed at Category:Top-importance Chicago articles.
Review articles at WP:CHIR
Peer review: Cloud Gate, BP Pedestrian Bridge



Infobox :


See Chicago articles needing infoboxes



Photo :


See Chicago articles needing photographs



Stubs :


Chicago stubs
Chicago geography stubs



Unreferenced :


See Unreferenced BLPs












edit  
Topics


Chicago

History of Chicago: Windy City • 1871 Great Chicago Fire • Haymarket affair • World's Columbian Exposition • Chicago Race Riot of 1919 • Chicago Board of Trade • McDonald's • Millennium Park • Cook County Democratic Party
Geography: Chicago River • Fort Dearborn • Prairie Avenue • Magnificent Mile • Cook County, Illinois
People: Daniel Burnham • Richard J. Daley • Oprah Winfrey • Al Capone • Barack Obama • Michael Jordan • Jesse Jackson • Aaron Montgomery Ward • Marshall Field • Potter Palmer • Harold Washington • Jean Baptiste Pointe du Sable
Landmarks & Tourist Attractions: Chicago Landmarks • Wrigley Field • Buckingham Fountain • Willis Tower • John Hancock Center • Chicago Cultural Center




edit  
Related portals













United States 
Illinois 
Atlanta 
Austin 
Barack Obama 
Cincinnati 
Cleveland 











Dallas – Fort Worth Metroplex 
Metro Detroit 
Erie 
Houston 
Indianapolis 
Inland Empire 
Lancaster 











Las Vegas 
Greater Los Angeles 
Louisville 
Miami 
New Orleans 
New York City 
Philadelphia 











Pittsburgh 
San Diego County 
San Francisco Bay Area 
Seattle 









edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Chicago&oldid=743324007"					
Categories: Chicago portalUnited States portals by cityChicagoIllinois portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةDeutschEspañolFrançais 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 October 2016, at 03:31.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"1.152","walltime":"1.497","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5733,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":440519,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":215730,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  935.930      1 -total"," 64.69%  605.419      1 Portal:Chicago/Featured_content"," 63.19%  591.432      8 Template:Columns-list"," 57.29%  536.168    578 Template:Icon"," 16.95%  158.594      6 Template:Random_portal_component","  2.84%   26.548      1 Portal:Chicago/Intro","  2.42%   22.667      1 Portal:Chicago/Did_you_know","  2.25%   21.029      2 Template:Multiple_image","  2.23%   20.859      1 Template:Triple_image","  2.22%   20.789      1 Template:Featured_portal"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.468","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2368117,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1185","timestamp":"20170206112058","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":59,"wgHostname":"mw1254"});});
