 







Portal:Kerala

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Culture | Economy | Geography | History | People | Politics | Society





 


 





edit
The Kerala Portal








Kerala is a state on the Malabar Coast of southwestern India. It is one of four states that compose the linguistic-cultural region known as South India. First settled in the 10th century BCE by speakers of Proto-South Dravidian, Kerala was influenced by the Mauryan Empire. Later, the Chera kingdom and feudal Nair city-states became major powers in the region.The states Cochin and travancore joined together to form thiru-cochin.finally malabar also joined in this state to became Kerala.the States Reorganisation Act of November 1, 1956 elevated Kerala to statehood. Social reforms enacted in the late 19th century by Travancore and Cochin were expanded upon by post-Independence governments, making Kerala among the Third World's healthiest, longest-lived, most gender-equitable, and most literate regions.


 More about Kerala ...









 


 





edit
Selected article







Thiruvananthapuram, formerly known as Trivandrum, is the capital of the Indian state of Kerala and the headquarters of Thiruvananthapuram District. It is located on the west coast of India near the extreme south of the mainland.It is characterized by its undulating terrain of low coastal hills with wide, clean roads and busy commercial alleys. India's Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi had referred and designated this lovely beach side city built on hills as the "Ever Green City of India". With almost 745,000 inhabitants at the 2001 census, the city itself is the largest and most populous city in Kerala; the wider urban agglomeration has a population of about one million.
The city is the State Capital and houses several Central and State Government offices, organizations and companies. Apart from being the political nerve center of Kerala, it is also a major academic hub and is home to several premier educational institutions including the Kerala University, and to many science and technology institutions, the most prominent being the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC). The city also has the first Information technology park of its kind and first Biotechnology Center, Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) of its kind in India. Situated near Kazhakoottam, Technopark is home to many of the world's leading technology companies. (more...)

Archive   •   Nominate








 


 





edit
Selected picture










Munnar is a small town located at 10°09′N 77°06′E﻿ / ﻿10.150°N 77.100°E﻿ / 10.150; 77.100 of the southern state of Kerala in India. The name is most often used to refer to the whole tourist area, of which the town forms a part.
It is located at the confluence of the mountain streams Muthirappuzha, Chanduvarai and Kundala. It is surrounded by wild jungles and is wet and cold for most of the year. Though part of Kerala state, Tamil workers brought from Tamilnadu and their successors are now majority in Munnar.
Photo credit: Bimal K C




Archive   •   Nominate








 


 





edit
Open tasks







 Kerala WikiProject | Discussion board
Here are some Kerala-related tasks you can do:

Participate : Indian WikiProject • WikiProject Indian Cinema • WikiProject Indian Literature • WikiProject Kerala • WikiProject Kollam •WikiProject Indian Christianity •More...
Current collaboration: none at the moment
Requests: A. R. Raja Raja Varma • Abdul Nazer Mahdani • PNC Menon • Alukkas • Cultural liberalism in India • Indian cultural imports and exports • Requested photos • More...
NPOV: Marad massacre • Makara Jyothi • Mata Amritanandamayi More...
Stubs: Chakyar • Chalakudy River • Champakulam Moolam Boat Race • Chandragiri fort • Aluva Sivarathri festival • Nair Service Society • Greater Cochin Development Authority • National Waterway III(India) • Vazhoor More...
Wikify: M. Krishnan Nair (doctor), More...
Cleanup: Mammootty •Mohanlal • Malayalam cinema • Holy Apostolic Throne of St. Thomas • C. K. Janu • Chalakudy • More...
Merge: More...
Expand: Outline of Kerala • International Film Festival of Kerala •Education in Kerala • Nilambur – Shoranur Railway Line More...
Collaborate: Collaboration of the Week, Category Adoptions To do, Version 1.0 assessment, Kerala Portal, Kerala Wikipedians, More...


view • edit • discuss • history • watch















 


 





edit
Did you know...






...that Transparency International ranked Kerala as the least corrupt state in the country in 2005?
...that according to tradition, it is believed that Thomas , the apostle of Jesus Christ established the Church in India in 52 AD?
...that Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama was buried in St. Francis Church in India?
...that Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary in Kerala, India, receives migratory birds from far away Siberia?
...that the Mattancherry Palace, popular as Dutch Palace, in Kochi, India, was built by the Portuguese and renovated by the Dutch?
...there is a belief that a dip in the waters of Papanasam Beach (pictured), one of the beaches in Kerala, washes away sins?
...that the hull of the kettuvallams, Kerala houseboats, (pictured) are built of wooden boards tied together by coir rope?


Suggest • Archive








 


 





edit
Categories



Kerala • Airports • Buildings and structures • Cities and Towns • Cricketers • Cuisine • Districts • Education • Forts • Geography • Governors • History • Kerala School • Malayalam • People • Politics • Scientists • Stubs • Society •Transport•Tourism







 


 





edit
Wikipedia in Malayalam









Malayalam edition of Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia










 


 





edit
Related portals




Kollam • India • Tamil Nadu • Bihar • Rajasthan • Mizoram • Goa • Gujarat • Government of India









 


 





edit
Topics related to Kerala










v
t
e


Kerala topics






History



Sangam period
Edakkal Caves
Ariyannur Umbrellas
Kudakkallu Parambu
Chovvanur burial cave
Chera
Venad Swaroopam
Kerala school
Battle of Kulachal
Anglo-Mysore Wars
Battle of Quilon
Vaikom Satyagraham
Perumpadapu Swaroopam
Malabar Migration








Government
Politics



Agencies
Chief Ministers
Governors
Legislative Assembly
Panchayat elections
Left Democratic Front
United Democratic Front
Politicians








Geography



Agasthyamala Biosphere Reserve
Ashtamudi Lake
Backwaters
Districts
Eravikulam National Park
Flora and fauna
Malabar Coast
Marayoor
Nelliampathi Mountains
Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve
Nilgiri Hills
Palakkad Gap
Protected areas
Vembanad Lake








Demographics
Economy
Religion



Malayalis
Namboothiris
Ambalavasis
Samanthas
Nairs
Saint Thomas Christians
Kerala Iyers
Ezhavas
Cochin Jews
Jainism in Kerala
Pulayar
Dravidians
Mappilas
Adivasis
Scheduled Tribes
Kerala model
Tourism
Education

colleges and universities










Culture







Arts
Architecture
Cuisine
Kalarippayattu
Literature
Sarpam Thullal
Triumvirate poets
Vallamkali








Dance / Drama / Cinema



Kathakali
Kolkali
Koodiyattam
Mohiniyattam
Margamkali
Ottamthullal
Theyyam
Cinema of Kerala








Festivals



Vishu
Onam
Pooram








Languages



Malayalam
Malayalam calendar
Mappila dialect
Suriyani Malayalam
Judeo-Malayalam
Irula language








Music



Chenda (Thayambaka)
Kolkali
Panchari melam
Panchavadyam
Sopanam








Organisations/Agencies



NSS
SNDP











Tourism



Alappuzha
Athirappilly Falls
Beaches in Kerala
Bekal
Kerala Backwaters
Kollam
Islands of Kollam
Kovalam
Munnar
Estuaries of Paravur
Visitor attractions in Thrissur
Tourism in Thiruvananthapuram
Vallamkali
Wayanad











Portal














 


 





edit
Associated Wikimedia







Kerala on Wikinews
News

Kerala on Wikiquote
Quotes

Kerala on Commons
Images

Kerala on Wikisource
Texts









What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Kerala&oldid=703386974"					
Categories: India portalsKeralaHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikinews 



Languages


हिन्दीമലയാളംதமிழ் 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 5 February 2016, at 05:47.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.112","walltime":"0.557","ppvisitednodes":{"value":620,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":74898,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":21063,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":6,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  472.856      1 -total"," 95.26%  450.442     10 Portal:Kerala/box-open"," 26.32%  124.438      1 Portal:Kerala/Introduction"," 19.84%   93.806      1 Portal:Kerala/Selected_pictures/Selected_picture_3"," 17.84%   84.361      1 Portal:Kerala/categories"," 16.49%   77.956      1 Portal:Kerala/DYK","  6.97%   32.967      1 Portal:Kerala/Wikimedia","  4.29%   20.264      1 Template:Featured_portal","  3.87%   18.276      1 Template:Coord","  3.74%   17.685      1 Template:Top_icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.017","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1181892,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1243","timestamp":"20170212120518","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":68,"wgHostname":"mw1173"});});
