 







Portal:Ireland

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







Fáilte go dtí Tairseach na hÉireann!
Fair faa ye tae tha Airlann Inlat!
Welcome to the Ireland Portal!





Categories
Contribute
Did you know...




Featured articles
How to link here
Related portals




Selected series
Selected article
Selected picture




Shortcuts:

P:ÉIRE
P:AIR
P:IRL











Sister portal:





Northern Ireland



Ireland (Irish: Éire, Ulster Scots: Airlann) is the third-largest island in Europe and the twentieth-largest island in the world. It lies to the north-west of continental Europe and is surrounded by hundreds of islands and islets. The Republic of Ireland covers five-sixths of the island. Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom, covers the remainder and is located in the northeast of the island. The population of Ireland is estimated to be 6.2 million. Slightly less than 4.5 million are estimated to live in the Republic of Ireland and slightly less than 1.8 million live in Northern Ireland.
Relatively low-lying mountains surrounding a central plain to epitomise the Ireland's geography with several navigable rivers extending inland. The island has a lush vegetation, a product of its mild but changeable oceanic climate, which avoids extremes in temperature. Thick woodlands covered the island until the 1600s. Today, it is the most deforested area in Europe. Twenty-six mammal species are native to Ireland, with some, such as the red fox, hedgehog and badger, being very common. Others, like the Irish hare, red deer and pine marten are less so.
Irish culture has had a significant influence on culture world-wide, particularly in the fields of literature and, to a lesser degree, science and learning. A strong indigenous culture, expressed for example through native sports and the Irish language, exists alongside a regional culture, such as Rugby football and golf. Read more ...


edit  
Selected article





The Clàrsach (Gd.) or Cláirseach (Ga.) is the name given to the wire-strung harp of either Scotland or Ireland. The word was originally cruit, but clàrsach begins to make its appearance in the sources by the end of the 14th century.
The earliest descriptions of a European triangular framed harp i.e. harps with a fore pillar are found on 8th century Pictish stones. Pictish harps were strung from horsehair. The instruments apparently spread south to the Anglo Saxons who commonly used gut strings and then west to the Gaels of the Highlands and to Ireland. Historically the carvings were made in the period after the establishment of the Gaelic kingdom of Dál Riata. Despite the lack of direct evidence, some argue for a Gaelic influence. However, there are only thirteen depictions of any triangular chordophone from pre-11th century Europe, and twelve of them come from Scotland. Moreover, the earliest Irish word for a harp is in fact Cruit, a word which strongly suggests a Pictish provenance for the instrument.
One study suggests Pictish stone carvings may be copied from the Utrecht Psalter, the only other source outside Pictish Scotland to display a Triangular Chordophone instrument. The Utrecht Psalter was penned between 816-835 A.D. While Pictish Triangular Chordophone carvings found on the Nigg Stone dates from 799 A.D. and pre-dates the document by up to thirty-five years. Read more...
Suggest • Archive…



edit  
Selected biography



George Best (22 May 1946 – 25 November 2005) was a Northern Irish football player best known for his years with Manchester United. He was a winger whose game combined pace, acceleration, balance, two-footedness, goalscoring and the ability to beat defenders. In 1968, his annus mirabilis, he won the European Cup with Manchester United, and was named the European Footballer of the Year. When fit, he was an automatic choice for the Northern Ireland team, but he was unable to lead them to the FIFA World Cup tournament.
In 1999 he was voted 11th, behind Marco van Basten, at the IFFHS European Player of the Century election and 16th, behind Lothar Matthäus, in the World Player of the Century election. Pelé named him as one of the 125 best living footballers in his 2004 FIFA 100 list and Best was named 19th, behind Gerd Müller, at the UEFA Golden Jubilee Poll. In his native Northern Ireland the admiration for him is summed up by the local saying: "Maradona good; Pelé better; George Best."
He was one of the first celebrity footballers, but his extravagant lifestyle led to problems with alcoholism which curtailed his playing career and eventually led to his death at the age of 59. His cause of death was a kidney infection, a side-effect of the immuno-suppressive drugs he was required to take after a liver transplant. Best's lovable, cheeky image won him many fans, during his career and after, despite his public drunkenness on TV, his convictions for drunk driving and assaulting a policeman, allegations of domestic violence, and his inability to give up drinking even after the transplant. 100,000 people turned out on a rainy day for his funeral in East Belfast. Read more...
Suggest • Archive...





 
Ireland topics









Republic of Ireland topics
Northern Ireland topics












 
History










Timeline



Prehistory
Protohistory
Early history
Gaelic Ireland / Lordship of Ireland

800–1169
1169–1536


Kingdom of Ireland

1536–1691
1691–1801


United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland

1801–1923


United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

since 1922


Irish Free State (1922–1937)
Ireland (since 1922)








Events



Battles of Tara / Glenmama / Clontarf
Norman invasion
Bruce campaign
Black Death
Tudor conquest
Desmond Rebellions
Spanish Armada
Tyrone's Rebellion
Flight of the Earls
Plantation of Ulster
1641 Rebellion / Confederate War
Cromwellian conquest / Settlement of 1652
Williamite War
Penal Laws
First Great Famine
1798 Rebellion
Act of Union (1800)
1803 Rebellion
Tithe War
Second Great Famine
Land War
Fenian Rising
Dublin Lock-out
Home Rule crisis
Easter Rising
War of Independence
Anglo-Irish Treaty
Civil War
The Emergency
IRA Northern Campaign
IRA Border Campaign
The Troubles
Peace process
Economy of the Republic of Ireland
Celtic Tiger
Post-2008 Irish economic downturn
Post-2008 Irish banking crisis








Other topics



List of conflicts in Ireland
List of Irish tribes
List of High Kings
Gaelic clothing and fashion
List of World Heritage Sites in the Republic of Ireland


















 
Geography










Natural



Climate
Coastline
Extreme points
Fauna
Islands
Loughs
Mountains
Rivers

list


List of national parks of the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland








Human



Architecture

Notable buildings
Tallest buildings and structures


Cities
Counties
Demographics of the Republic of Ireland / of Northern Ireland
Ports
Provinces
ROI–UK border
Towns
Tourist attractions
Transport


















 
Politics










Ideologies



Nationalism
Republicanism
Ulster loyalism
Unionism








Republic of Ireland



Constitution
Economy
Education
Foreign relations
Government

local


Oireachtas parliament

Dáil Éireann (lower house)
Seanad Éireann (upper house)
President










Northern Ireland



Assembly

D'Hondt method


Economy
Education
Government

local


Peace process


















 
Culture










Cuisine




Food



List of dishes
Barmbrack
Boxty
Champ
Coddle
Colcannon
Drisheen
Goody
Skirts and kidneys
Soda bread
Stew
Ulster fry








Drinks



Coffee
Cream
Guinness
Mist
Poitín
Whiskey











Dance



Jig
Sean-nós
Set dancing
Stepdance








Festivals



Imbolc
Saint Patrick's Day
Bealtaine
The Twelfth
Lúnasa
Rose of Tralee
Samhain / Halloween
Wren Day








Languages



Hiberno-English
Irish
Shelta
Ulster Scots








Literature



Annals
Fiction
Gaeilge
Poetry
Theatre
Triads








Music



Ballads
Céilí
Folk music

session


Instruments
Rock music
Traditional singing








Mythology



Cycles

Fenian
Mythological
Ulster


Aos Sí
Echtrai
Immrama
Tuatha Dé Danann
Legendary creatures








People



Anglo-Irish
Gaels

Gaelic Ireland


Hiberno-Normans
Irish diaspora
List of Irish people
Travellers
Ulster Scots








Sport



Association football
Camogie
Gaelic football
Gaelic handball
Hurling
Martial arts
Road bowling
Rounders
Rugby union








Symbols



Brighid's Cross
Cláirseach
County coats of arms
Flags

N. Ireland flags issue


Irish Wolfhound
National coat of arms
Red Hand
Shamrock








Other



Calendar
Homelessness
Names
Place names in Ireland / outside Ireland
Prostitution (Republic) / in Northern Ireland
Public holidays in the Republic of Ireland / in Northern Ireland
Public houses















Ireland portal





 





[suggest]
   


Did you know...






...that the Coat of arms of Ireland are recorded as belonging to the King of Ireland as far back as the 13th century?
...that Yola was a West Germanic language spoken in Ireland until the mid-19th century?
...that the Royal Standard of Scotland may have its origins in a Milesian symbol brought from Ireland in the 6th century?
...that St. James's Gate is the traditional starting point in Ireland for the pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela?

Archive...


Quick archive 


...that County Wicklow was the last of the traditional counties of Ireland to be created in 1606—07?
...that 34 Irish Colleges have been established on the European continent since the 16th century?
...that pitch and putt, a game similar to golf was invented in Ireland where it is still mainly played?
...that Ireland's Thomas Gisborne Gordon is the only one-handed person ever to play international rugby of either code?
...that the O'Conors, medieval kings of Connacht, are one of the oldest royal families in Europe, tracing their dynasty to 76 AD?
...that as well as Saint Patrick, Ireland has two other patron saints: Brigid of Kildare and Colmcille?
...that the first soviet in Ireland or Britain was established at Monaghan Lunatic Asylum in February 1919?
...that the Air Corps originate in the Anglo-Irish Treaty talks, when a biplane was purchased to allow Irish negotiators to escape should talks failed?
...that Ireland consumes more baked beans per head of population than any other country in the world?
...that the Irish Houses of Parliament building, now the Bank of Ireland at College Green, Dublin, was the first purpose-built parliament in the world?
...that Greek geographer Ptolemy used the term Μικρὰ Βρεττανία (Mikra Brettania, or Little Britain) to refer to Ireland, although in his later work uses Ιουερνία (Iwernia), which is thought to be truer to the name used by the inhabitants of the island?
...that Early Irish law permitted a husband to hit his wife to "correct" her, but that if the blow left a mark she was entitled to the equivalent of her bride price in compensation and could divorce him if she wished?
...that mountaineer Ger McDonnell, the first Irish person to summit K2, brought a hurley to the summit of Mount Everest in 2003?
...that the headland of Drumanagh in Co. Dublin may once have hosted a fort acting as bridgehead for Roman military invasion?
…that some 2006 New York productions of DruidSynge, a production of the complete plays of John Millington Synge by the Druid Theatre Company, were performed in day-long cycles?
...that when County Clare was created in 1565 it was moved from Munster to Connacht only to be returned to Munster again in 1602?
…that the MV Kerlogue, an Irish merchant ship, was attacked by both the Allied and Axis sides during World War II and rescued both sides. They rescued the Wild Rose of Liverpool and they rescued 168 Germans, 164 of who spent the rest of The Emergency interned in the Curragh internment camp?
...that the College Historical Society of Trinity College, Dublin is the oldest undergraduate student society in the world?
...that to the Romans, Scotia was another name for Hibernia, both meaning Ireland?
...that Gregg shorthand was invented by Co. Monaghan-born, John Robert Gregg?
...that Waterford is Ireland's oldest city, being first settled in 853?
...that according to traditional Irish genealogy, all Irish people are descended from King Milesius?
...that until 1953 both the IFA and FAI fielded international teams under the name of Ireland?
...that seventh-century Irish saint, Saint Fiacre, is the patron saint of taxi drivers?
...that Cashel, Co. Tipperary was made a city by charter of Charles II in 1667, but lost city status when its city corporation was abolished by the Municipal Corporations (Ireland) Act 1840?
...that Newry had greatest rise in house prices in the United Kingdom over the last decade, with prices increasing by 371% since 1996?
…that in 1903, George Moore, from a Catholic family and then aged 51, announced himself to be a Protestant in a letter to the Irish Times newspaper?
…that David Feldman, an Irish philatelist now based in Geneva, auctioned the world's most expensive postage stamp, the Swedish Treskilling Yellow for 2.5 million Swiss francs in 1996?
...that Jonathan Swift called his predecessor "that rascal Dean Jones" because he made such bad property leases whilst Dean of St. Patrick's Cathedral in Dublin?
...that the Mount Sandel Mesolithic site in Coleraine, County Londonderry is the oldest archaeological site in Ireland?
...that Wellington Testimonial in the Phoenix Park, Dublin, is the largest obelisk in Europe?
...that shamrock is an internationally registered trademark of the Government of Ireland?
...that Ireland consumes more tea per head of population than any other country in the world?
...that Letterkenny has the longest main street in Ireland?
...that the remains of Saint Nicholas are said to be buried close to Jerpoint Abbey, Co. Kilkenny, having been brought back from the Crusades by a 12th century knight?
...that cycle polo, a variant of polo played on bicycles instead of horses, originated in Ireland in 1891?
...that the River Foyle is the fastest flowing river in Europe and is crossed by Europe's only double-decker bridge?
...that Paul McGrath, growing up in orphanages, was known as Paul Nwobilo until eventually tracked down by his mother, Betty McGrath?
...that Cork Harbour is one of several harbours that lay claim to the title of "second largest natural harbour in the world by navigational area".
...that Robert the Bruce, the 14th century king of Scotland, popularised a "pan-Gaelic Greater Scotia" and his brother Edward Bruce was the last High King of Ireland?
...that City Hall in Cork was paid for by the British government as a gesture of reconciliation during the 1930s to replace the one burnt down by British forces during the War of Independence?
...that the English phrase "By Hook or by Crook" is said to be derived from attempts to take Waterford in 1649 by Hook, meaning Hook Head on the east side of Waterford Harbour, or by Crook, a village on the west side of the harbour?
...that Private James Daly, who led the The Connaught Rangers mutiny in India during the War of Independence, was the last member of the British armed forced to be executed for mutiny?
...that Dublin University Football Club, Trinity's rugby union club, established in 1854, has a strong claim to be the world's oldest football club?
...that Newfoundland, in eastern Canada, has a unique dialect of Irish, closely resembling the Irish spoken during the 16th to 17th centuries and called Newfoundland Irish?
...that the Dell manufacturing plant in Raheen, Limerick produces 30,000—60,000 personal computers per day and contributes 5.8% of Irish GDP?
...that in 1631 the entire population of the village of Baltimore, County Cork was kidnapped by Algerian pirates in what became known as the Sack of Baltimore?
...that the modern game of croquet was invented in Ireland in the 1830s?
...that the Guinness company once produced a Marmite-like yeast extract spread called Guinness Yeast Extract?
...the Choctaw tribe in America donated $170 towards famine relief in Ireland in 1847?
...that Sir Francis Beaufort, creator of the famed Beaufort Scale, was born in Navan in County Meath? Or that his restored Georgian home in Navan was controversially demolished in the 1990s to build a road?
...that Newgrange is a 5000 year old passage tomb pre-dating the pyramids and Stonehenge? The builders had astronomical knowledge to precisely illumininate the internal passages of the tomb during the winter solstice?
...that the Ó Siochfhradha brothers were Irish Language teachers and writers from Dingle?
...that Fran Dempsey, who acted as Fortycoats in the 1980s RTÉ children's program, is Ian Dempsey's father?
...that the 4m people living in the Republic represent only half citizens of the State?
...that Xtravision, Ireland's largest chain of video rental stores, was valued at IR£27m (€34m) when it went spectacularly bankrupt in 1991?
...that Griffith College Dublin is a private university located on South Circular Road in Dublin?
...that the RTE puppet Dustin the Turkey has mockingly run for President of Ireland several times?
...that people from Westport, County Mayo, are traditionally known as Coveys, and used to speak a dialect unintelligible to outsiders?
...that Dubliners have humorous nicknames for the city's monuments, including The Stiletto in the Ghetto and the Floozie in the Jacuzzi?
...that the various incarnations of the IRA were/are run by a chief of staff and that over 30 people have held this position since 1917?
...that, with a top rate of 12.5%, Ireland has the third lowest corporate tax rate in the world?
...that, with 10,000 dead, the 1316 Battle of Athenry was one of the bloodiest battles ever fought in Ireland?
...that the Treaty Ports of Cobh, Lough Swilly and Berehaven were UK sovereign bases from 1921 until 1938?
...that the Bogside Artists are a trio of mural painters in Derry?
...that Limerick city was besieged three times in the 17th century?
...Irish Times journalist Arthur Quinlan has interviewed every US president since Harry Truman?
...that gas bubbles travel downwards in a pint glass of Guinness ale?
...The Wanderings of Oisin, published in 1889, was Yeats’ first publication outside of magazines, immediately winning his reputation as a significant poet?
...that Irish songwriter Christy Moore wrote a comic song about the building of the Knock Airport, which transports hundreds of pilgrims to and from the Roman Catholic shrine at Knock, declaring, "I've never seen a miracle like the airport up in Knock"?
...that, unlike oft-violent hurling, its female variant, camogie, forbids any unnecessary physical contact?










[suggest]
   


Selected picture







Hurling being played at Cardinal Dougherty High School, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA, showing the hurley (stick) and sliotar (ball).
Archive...


Quick archive 








Selskar Abbey, Wexford









Limerick on the Shannon River (1840)









Arthur Guinness, founder of the Guinness









A Galway Hooker.









The woolsack, the Irish House of Lords.









A horse drinking near Downpatrick









The Cross of Cong









The Chicago River, Saint Patrick's Day 2009









The Leviathan of Parsonstown









A back road in Co. Mayo









St. Patrick's Street, Cork circa. 1890-1900









Christmas shoppers in Dublin









The Gap of Dunloe, Co. Kerry









19th century Irish crochet









Snap-Apple Night (Halloween) by Daniel Maclise









A memorial to the first non-stop transatlantic flight









A reconstructed crannóg in Scotland









Famine sculpture at the IFSC









An anti-Irish cartoon from 1871









William Butler Yeats, by John Butler Yeats









Wind-surfing on Lough Lene, Co. Westmeath









Iron cross, Malin Head, Co. Donegal









Newgrange, Co. Meath









The Foyle at night.









Carlingford Lough









Redwood Castle, Co. Tipperary









St. Eunan's College, Letterkenny









Jerpoint Abbey, Co. Kilkenny









Dervish at Eurovision 2007









Gaelic Irish soldiers









Scotch Quay, Waterford









Theatre Royal, Wexford









Lighthouse at Hook Head









City Hall, Belfast









Doolin, Co. Clare









Yeats' grave, Co. Sligo









Oxegen 2007, Co. Kildare









City Hall, Cork









Leamaneh Castle, Co. Clare









St. Stephen's Green, Dublin









Cathedral of St. Eunan and St Columba









The Dingle Peninsula, Co. Kerry









Cathedral of Saints Patrick and Felim, Cavan









Clew Bay, Co. Mayo









Athenry, Co. Galway









Stephen's Green Shopping Centre, Dublin









The Giant's Causeway, Co. Antrim









Slieve League, Co. Donegal









Selected series: Irish cities


Kilkenny
Cill Chainnigh



City









Coat of arms












Kilkenny





Location in Ireland


Coordinates: 52°38′52″N 7°15′22″W﻿ / ﻿52.6477°N 7.2561°W﻿ / 52.6477; -7.2561Coordinates: 52°38′52″N 7°15′22″W﻿ / ﻿52.6477°N 7.2561°W﻿ / 52.6477; -7.2561


Country
Ireland


Province
Leinster


County
County Kilkenny


Dáil Éireann
Carlow–Kilkenny


EU Parliament
East constituency


Area


 • Total
3.74 km2 (1.44 sq mi)


Elevation
60 m (200 ft)


Population (2006)[1]


 • Total
22,179


 • Borough
8,661


 • Environs
13,518


Irish Grid Reference
S506563


Dialing code
+353


Vehicle registration code
KK


Website
www.kilkennycity.ie




^ "Census 2006 – Volume 1 – Population Classified by Area" (PDF). Central Statistics Office Census 2006 Reports. Central Statistics Office Ireland. April 2007. Retrieved 2011-05-07. 







Categories

Ireland 



Buildings and structures in Ireland 
Communications in Ireland 
Counties of Ireland 
Irish culture 
Economy of Ireland 
Education in Ireland 
Environment of Ireland 
Geography of Ireland 
Government of Ireland 
Health in Ireland 
History of Ireland 
Irish law 
Ireland-related lists 
Organisations based in Ireland 
Irish people 
Politics of Ireland 
Provinces of Ireland 
Religion in Ireland 
Sport in Ireland 
Transport in Ireland





Republic of Ireland 



Architecture of the Republic of Ireland 
Counties of the Republic of Ireland 
Culture in the Republic of Ireland 
Economy of the Republic of Ireland 
Education in the Republic of Ireland 
Environment of the Republic of Ireland 
Geography of the Republic of Ireland 
Government of the Republic of Ireland 
Health in the Republic of Ireland 
History of the Republic of Ireland 
Irish law 
Republic of Ireland-related lists 
Media in the Republic of Ireland 
Military of the Republic of Ireland 
Organisations based in the Republic of Ireland 
Irish people 
Politics of the Republic of Ireland 
Religion in the Republic of Ireland 
Science and technology in the Republic of Ireland 
Sport in the Republic of Ireland 
Tourism in the Republic of Ireland 
Transport in the Republic of Ireland





Northern Ireland 



Buildings and structures in Northern Ireland 
Conservation in Northern Ireland 
Northern Irish culture 
Economy of Northern Ireland 
Education in Northern Ireland 
Geography of Northern Ireland 
Government of Northern Ireland 
Health in Northern Ireland 
History of Northern Ireland 
Northern Irish law 
Northern Ireland-related lists 
Organisations based in Northern Ireland 
Northern Irish people 
Politics of Northern Ireland 
Religion in Northern Ireland 
Sport in Northern Ireland 
Tourism in Northern Ireland 
Transport in Northern Ireland 
Ulster




Featured articles

1981 Irish hunger strike · Abbey Theatre · Achtung Baby · Aldfrith of Northumbria · Arnold Bax · Book of Kells · Richard John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan · Burke and Hare murders · Richard Cantillon · Charles I of England · Tom Crean · Andrew Cunningham · Drapier's Letters · Dave Gallaher · Geography of Ireland · Michael Gomez · Augusta, Lady Gregory · Head VI · House of Plantagenet · International goals scored by Robbie Keane · Irish phonology · Irish Victoria Cross recipients · James Joyce · James II of England · George Moore · Murder of Julia Martha Thomas · Cillian Murphy · Nelson's Pillar · James Nesbitt · No Line on the Horizon · Postage stamps of Ireland · Representative peer · Ernest Shackleton · George Bernard Shaw · Charles Villiers Stanford · John Millington Synge · The Revolution Will Not Be Televised · U2 · U2 3D · William Butler Yeats · Zoo TV Tour


Former featured articles 

Celtic tiger · Samuel Beckett · Simon Byrne · Derry City F.C. · Donegal fiddle tradition · Economy of Ireland · History of Limerick · Éire · Irish Houses of Parliament · Irish theatre · Irish poetry  · Arthur Percival · President of Ireland · Ryanair · The Waterboys


Note: Links in bold have been featured on the main page.




Related portals













United Kingdom
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Isle of Man
Wales
Cornwall
England
European Union
Europe




What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Contribute







Related Wikimedia projects

Vicífhoclóir — Wiktionary in the Irish language
Vicipéid — Wikipedia in the Irish language
Wikinews Ireland — Wikinews for Ireland
Wikipaedia — Wikipedia in the Scots language

How to link here
Simply add {{Portal|Ireland}} to a page. If you need to use a flag, to avoid causing offense, please use the Four Provinces flag e.g. {{Portal|Ireland}}.






If you are new to Wikipedia then Céad Mile Fáilte! This portal is for articles on Wikipedia that relate to Ireland (both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland). Like all of Wikipedia, it is written collaboratively and, like any article that you find using it, it too can be edited by anyone.
There is an active community of editors working on Ireland-related articles on Wikipedia and there are dedicated projects that tie this community together. To get in touch with them - or just to find out more - drop by at one of the parent Ireland-related projects:

WikiProject Ireland (all-island)
Wikiproject Northern Ireland

If you want to get involved in contributing to Wikipedia, don't worry - everybody needs some help at the start. If you get into trouble you can always ask another Wikipedian for help. These guides should get you up-and-running on how Wikipedia works and how you can contribute:

Getting started: This introduction explains how Wikipedia works. When you're ready, you can try the tutorial.
Questions about Wikipedia: The Frequent Ask Questions page has answers to all kinds of questions asked about Wikipedia.

If you would like to involve yourself with the Irish on Wikipedia, the section below will connect you to communities of editors working on specific Ireland-related topics. It also contains an up-to-date to do list for Ireland-related articles so you can start helping out right now. Click [show] (below, right) to see it all:



How you can improve Ireland-related articles on Wikipedia... ! 









v
t
e


Irish Wikipedia address book









WikiProject Ireland
WikiProject Northern Ireland
Manual of Style








Portals:



Ireland
Northern Ireland








WikiProjects:



Belfast
European Union
Gaeilge
Irish Republicanism
Irish Maritime








Contact:



Irish Wikipedians' Notice Board
Northern Irish Wikipedians' Notice Board
Irish Wikipedians
Northern Irish Wikipedians
Wikipedians in Ireland









Please add what information to the address book that you can!







edit · history · watch · refresh  To-do list for Wikipedia:Irish Wikipedians' notice board:







To start

To find Non-Copyrighted images

Wikipedia requested photographs in Ireland




To expand (stubs)

{{Ireland-stub}}
{{Ireland-geo-stub}}


To improve (non-stubs)








Purge server cache





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Ireland&oldid=698303087"					
Categories: Wikipedia pages with to-do listsEuropean portalsUnited Kingdom portalsPortals by countryHidden categories: Hidden templates using stylesPages using deprecated coordinates formatFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDeutschEestiEspañolEuskaraFrançaisGalegoItalianoעבריתNederlandsPortuguêsРусскийSvenskaУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 5 January 2016, at 07:15.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.528","walltime":"0.823","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5747,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":299318,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":56974,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":25,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":6,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  612.103      1 -total"," 33.36%  204.217      1 Template:Random_Component"," 32.78%  200.659      1 Portal:Ireland/Random_City/6"," 26.68%  163.303      7 Template:Hidden"," 25.59%  156.650      1 Template:Infobox_settlement"," 23.03%  140.966      2 Portal:Ireland/box"," 20.34%  124.477      1 Portal:Ireland/Picture"," 19.37%  118.588      2 Template:Infobox","  9.19%   56.231      1 Portal:Ireland/Welcome","  7.88%   48.260      1 Template:Ireland_topics"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.111","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3480177,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1172","timestamp":"20170204045724","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":70,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
