 







Portal:Kentucky

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Kentucky Portal






The Commonwealth of Kentucky i/kᵻnˈtʌki/ is a state located in the East Central United States of America. As classified by the United States Census Bureau, Kentucky is a Southern state. Kentucky is one of four U.S. states constituted as a commonwealth (the others being Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts). Originally a part of Virginia, in 1792 it became the 15th state to join the Union. Kentucky is the 37th largest state in terms of total area, the 36th largest in land area, and ranks 26th in population.
Kentucky is known as the "Bluegrass State", a nickname based on the fact that native bluegrass is present in many of the pastures throughout the state, based on the fertile soil. It made possible the breeding of high-quality livestock, especially thoroughbred racing horses. It is a land with diverse environments and abundant resources, including the world's longest cave system, Mammoth Cave National Park; the greatest length of navigable waterways and streams in the Lower 48 states; and the two largest man-made lakes east of the Mississippi River. It is also home to the highest per capita number of deer and turkey in the United States, the largest free-ranging elk herd east of Montana, and the nation's most productive coalfield. Kentucky is also known for thoroughbred horses, horse racing, bourbon distilleries, bluegrass music, automobile manufacturing, tobacco and college basketball.
More about Kentucky...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The Confederate government of Kentucky was a shadow government established for the Commonwealth of Kentucky by a self-constituted group of Southern sympathizers during the American Civil War. The shadow government never replaced the elected government in Frankfort, which had strong Union sympathies. Neither did it gain the support of Kentucky's citizens; its jurisdiction extended only as far as Confederate battle lines in the Commonwealth. Nevertheless, the provisional government was recognized by the Confederate States of America, and Kentucky was admitted to the Confederacy on December 10, 1861.
Bowling Green was designated the Confederate capital of Kentucky, but due to the military situation in the state, the provisional government was exiled and traveled with the Army of Tennessee for most of its existence. For a short time in the autumn of 1862, the Confederate Army controlled Frankfort, the only time a Union capital was captured by Confederate forces. During this occupation, General Braxton Bragg attempted to install the provisional government as the permanent authority in the Commonwealth. However, Union General Don Carlos Buell ambushed the inauguration ceremony and drove the provisional government from the state for the final time. From that point forward, the government existed primarily on paper, and was dissolved at the end of the war.



Learn more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Selected picture


Photo credit: Anthony 5429
The Creation Museum questions the validity of the theory of evolution.
Archive/Nominations...



edit  
Selected city



Covington is a city in Kenton County. As of the 2000 census, the city population was 43,370; it is the fifth-most-populous city in Kentucky. It is one of two county seats of Kenton County. Covington is located at the confluence of the Ohio and Licking Rivers. Covington is separated from Cincinnati, Ohio by the Ohio River and from Newport by the Licking River. Covington is located within the Upland South region; it is also acknowledged as a Midwestern city.
In 1814, John Gano, Richard Gano, and Thomas Carneal purchased 150 acres (0.6 km2) on the west side of the Licking River at its confluence with the Ohio River, referred to as "the Point," from Thomas Kennedy for $50,000. The men named their new riverfront enterprise the "Covington Company," in honor of their friend, General Leonard Covington, an American officer who once trained troops in the area and was killed in the War of 1812.
Fueled in part by the European revolutions of the mid-1800s, many Europeans, particularly Germans, immigrated to Covington. At this time, the primary commercial district and gathering place was on Main Street near Sixth Street, the area now known as "Mainstrasse." Sixth Street was laid out with a wide width that allowed the city, in 1861, to establish a public market in the center of the street with traffic lanes on either side. The nearby Mutter Gottes Kirche (Mother of God Church), built in 1871, was the center of another German-speaking neighborhood.



Learn more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Did you know...



... that the Confederate Memorial in Nicholasville, Kentucky, took sixteen years to fund, and was originally a statue of a Union soldier?
... that Kentucky's Paducah Freight House was bigger than required because it was originally intended to service a larger rail network?
... that the Confederate Memorial Gateway in Hickman, Kentucky took ten years and US$10,000 to build?
... that the first railroad depot in Stanford, Kentucky, was built due to a compromise between Union general Ambrose Burnside and the Louisville and Nashville Railroad?
... that The Hunters of Kentucky, which commemorated the Battle of New Orleans, was used as Andrew Jackson's 1828 campaign song?
... that the old stone jail in Bardstown, Kentucky, an active prison from 1819 to 1987, is the last stone jail in operation in Kentucky?

Archive...



edit  
Kentucky Official Symbols






State Bird



Beverage: Milk
Bird: Cardinal
Butterfly: Viceroy Butterfly
Dance: Clogging
Fish: Kentucky Spotted Bass
Flower: Goldenrod
Fossil: Brachiopod
Fruit: Blackberry
Grass: Kentucky Bluegrass
Horse: Thoroughbred
Instrument: Appalachian Dulcimer
Mineral: Coal
Tree: Tulip Poplar
Wild Animal Game Species: Gray Squirrel

More State Symbols...






edit  
On this day in Kentucky history...



(1862) Battle of Fort Henry
(1865) Lexington's John C. Breckinridge named Confederate States Secretary of War.

Archive...




edit  
Selected attraction



My Old Kentucky Home State Park is a state park in Kentucky. It is located in Bardstown. The state park consists of Federal Hill, a former plantation owned by the Rowan family. A visit to the site in 1852 is said to have inspired Stephen Foster to write his famous song, My Old Kentucky Home. On June 1, 1992, a 29-cent stamp was issued honoring the park.
The park features an amphitheater that is home to the long-running outdoor musical, Stephen Foster — The Musical, which was usually staged each night except Monday during the summer. It is the longest running outdoor drama in the state of Kentucky, having started in 1959.



Learn more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Selected biography



Jim Bunning (born October 23, 1931) is an American politician who was a Hall of Fame pitcher in Major League Baseball from 1955 to 1971. He subsequently entered electoral politics and was eventually elected to the United States Senate from Kentucky; he has served there since 1999 as the Republican junior U.S. Senator. He previously served in the U.S. House of Representatives representing Kentucky's 4th Congressional District from 1987 to 1999.
Jim Bunning's first game as a major league pitcher was on July 20, 1955. He pitched for the Detroit Tigers from 1955 to 1963, moving to the Philadelphia Phillies from 1964 through 1967, to the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1968 through the middle of the 1969 season, finished the 1969 season on the Los Angeles Dodgers, and returned to the Phillies in 1970, retiring in 1971.



Learn more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Quotes


"I hope to have God on my side, but I must have Kentucky." -- Abraham Lincoln
"I was brought up to believe that Scotch whisky would need a tax preference to survive in competition with Kentucky bourbon." -- Hugo Black
"Tough girls come from New York. Sweet girls, they're from Georgia. But us Kentucky girls, we have fire and ice in our blood. We can ride horses, be a debutante, throw left hooks, and drink with the boys, all the while making sweet tea, darlin'. And if we have an opinion, you know you're gonna hear it." -- Ashley Judd
"Soon after, I returned home to my family, with a determination to bring them as soon as possible to live in Kentucky, which I esteemed a second paradise, at the risk of my life and fortune." -- Daniel Boone




edit  
Kentucky lists




Airports
Civil War Monuments
Counties
Governors
Museums
People
Railroads
Rivers
State Parks






edit  
Sister portals/WikiProjects




Louisville
Indiana
Indianapolis
Tennessee
















Portal
Portal
Portal
Portal


WikiProject
WikiProject
WikiProject
WikiProject






edit  
Categories


Select [+] to view subcategories



▼ Kentucky


► Kentucky-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Kentucky



► Communications in Kentucky



► Kentucky culture



► Demographics of Kentucky



► Economy of Kentucky



► Education in Kentucky



► Environment of Kentucky



► Geography of Kentucky



► Government of Kentucky



► Health in Kentucky



► History of Kentucky



► Landmarks in Kentucky



► Kentucky law



► Military in Kentucky



► Native American tribes in Kentucky



► People from Kentucky



► Politics of Kentucky



► Science and technology in Kentucky



► Kentucky society



► Sports in Kentucky



► Tourist attractions in Kentucky



► Transportation in Kentucky



► Wikipedia books on Kentucky



► Images of Kentucky



► Kentucky stubs



► Kentucky templates












edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Citing sources : Unreferenced Kentucky articles
Cleanup : Kentucky articles needing attention
Featured article candidates : * No results were found.
Featured list candidates : * No results were found.
Featured sound candidates : * No results were found.
Good article nominations : *


 William M. Branham
 Carol (film)
 William Lofland Dudley
 Matthew Lyon



Geographical coordinates : Apollo High School (Owensboro, Kentucky), Don F. Pratt Memorial Museum, more Kentucky articles missing geocoordinate data
Infobox : Kentucky articles needing infoboxes
Map : Kentucky related
Photo : Kentucky related
Stubs : Category:Stub-Class Kentucky articles, Category:Kentucky stubs
Other : *Place the {{WikiProject United States|class=|importance=|KY=yes|KY-importance=}} banner into Kentucky related articles and assess
















v
t
e


 Commonwealth of Kentucky







Frankfort (capital)






Topics



Index
Cuisine
Environment
Geography
History
Music
People
Religion
Symbols
(Seal
Flag)
Theater
Tourism
Transportation
Tourist attractions
Category
Index
Portal





Seal of Kentucky







Society



Culture
Crime
Demographics
Economy
Education
Politics
Sports








Regions



Allegheny Plateau
The Bluegrass
Central Kentucky
Cumberland Mountains
Cumberland Plateau
Eastern Kentucky Coalfield
Highland Rim
The Knobs
Mississippi Plain
Northern Kentucky
Pennyroyal Plateau
The Purchase
Ridge-and-Valley
South Central Kentucky
Tennessee Valley
Western Coal Fields








25 largest
cities



Louisville
Lexington
Bowling Green
Owensboro
Covington
Richmond
Georgetown
Florence
Hopkinsville
Nicholasville
Elizabethtown
Henderson
Frankfort
Jeffersontown
Independence
Paducah
Radcliff
Ashland
Madisonville
Murray
Erlanger
Winchester
St. Matthews
Danville
Fort Thomas








Metropolitan
areas



Ashland
Bowling Green
Clarksville, TN
Elizabethtown
Evansville
Lexington–Fayette
Louisville/Jefferson County
Northern Kentucky
Owensboro








Counties



Adair
Allen
Anderson
Ballard
Barren
Bath
Bell
Boone
Bourbon
Boyd
Boyle
Bracken
Breathitt
Breckinridge
Bullitt
Butler
Caldwell
Calloway
Campbell
Carlisle
Carroll
Carter
Casey
Christian
Clark
Clay
Clinton
Crittenden
Cumberland
Daviess
Edmonson
Elliott
Estill
Fayette
Fleming
Floyd
Franklin
Fulton
Gallatin
Garrard
Grant
Graves
Grayson
Green
Greenup
Hancock
Hardin
Harlan
Harrison
Hart
Henderson
Henry
Hickman
Hopkins
Jackson
Jefferson
Jessamine
Johnson
Kenton
Knott
Knox
LaRue
Laurel
Lawrence
Lee
Leslie
Letcher
Lewis
Lincoln
Livingston
Logan
Lyon
Madison
Magoffin
Marion
Marshall
Martin
Mason
McCracken
McCreary
McLean
Meade
Menifee
Mercer
Metcalfe
Monroe
Montgomery
Morgan
Muhlenberg
Nelson
Nicholas
Ohio
Oldham
Owen
Owsley
Pendleton
Perry
Pike
Powell
Pulaski
Robertson
Rockcastle
Rowan
Russell
Scott
Shelby
Simpson
Spencer
Taylor
Todd
Trigg
Trimble
Union
Warren
Washington
Wayne
Webster
Whitley
Wolfe
Woodford







edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Kentucky on Wikinews
Kentucky on Wikiquote
Kentucky on Wikibooks
Kentucky on Wikisource
Kentucky on Wiktionary
Kentucky on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images







What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Kentucky&oldid=649203039"					
Categories: KentuckyUnited States portals by state or territoryWikiProject KentuckyHidden categories: Featured portalsArticles including recorded pronunciations 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 08:29.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.224","walltime":"0.366","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2373,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":136987,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":21888,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  247.410      1 -total"," 38.20%   94.507      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 15.69%   38.819      1 Wikipedia:WikiProject_Kentucky/to_do"," 14.28%   35.328      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 13.92%   34.436      1 Template:Tasks"," 13.20%   32.665      1 Template:Top_icon"," 10.99%   27.178      1 Portal:Kentucky/Selected_city/Layout"," 10.98%   27.157      1 Template:Category_handler"," 10.47%   25.906      1 Template:Convert","  7.41%   18.339      1 Template:Kentucky"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.073","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3246667,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1241","timestamp":"20170206172519","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":443,"wgHostname":"mw1241"});});
