 







Portal:Louisville

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



edit  
The Louisville Portal



Louisville (i/ˈluːiːvɪl/, local i/ˈluː.əvəl/ or i/ˈlʌvəl/) is the largest city in the U.S. state of Kentucky, and the county seat of Jefferson County. Since 2003, the city's borders have been coterminous with those of the county because of a city-county merger. The city's population at the 2010 census was 741,096. An important internal shipping port in the 19th century, Louisville today is best known as the location of the Kentucky Derby, the first of three annual thoroughbred horse races making up the Triple Crown.
Louisville is situated on the Ohio River in north-central Kentucky at the Falls of the Ohio. Because it includes counties in Southern Indiana, the Louisville metropolitan area is often referred to as Kentuckiana. The river forms the border between Kentucky and Indiana. A resident of Louisville is referred to as a Louisvillian. Although situated in a Southern state, Louisville is influenced by both Southern and Midwestern culture. It is sometimes referred to as either the northernmost Southern city or the southernmost Northern city in the United States.
The settlement that became the city of Louisville was founded in 1778 by George Rogers Clark and is named after King Louis XVI of France.
More about Louisville...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The American Civil War fortifications in Louisville were designed to protect Louisville, Kentucky, as it was an important supply station for the Union's fight in the western theatre of the war. They were typically named for fallen Union officers; usually those that served in the Army of the Ohio. The inspiration for building the forts came in October 1862, when Confederate forces engaged in their largest attack in Kentucky, only to be halted at the Battle of Perryville. Construction began in 1863, going at a slow pace until Confederate forces marched on Nashville, Tennessee in the autumn of 1864.
They typically held a minimum of 50 artillerists and 200 infantrymen, with four to six cannon. Twelve batteries were to back up eleven forts in an 10 and a half mile arc around the city, relying on the Ohio River to protect the city's northern flank. They were placed in prominent positions, where they could engage in a cross-fire of opposing forces. The forts' length were between 550 and 700 feet, with walls fifteen to thirty feet thick, and six to eight feet high.



Read more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Selected picture





Photo credit: C. Bedford Crenshaw
Louisville Water Tower is the oldest ornamental water tower in the world
Archive/Nominations...



edit  
Did you know...






... that 37 people were killed during construction of the Big Four Bridge (pictured) connecting Louisville, Kentucky to Jeffersonville, Indiana across the Ohio River?
... that DePauw Avenue Historic District, New Albany, Indiana, was once the summer estate of the man who owned two thirds of the plate glass business of the United States?
... that the oldest firehouse still standing in Louisville, Kentucky was once a church?
... that 13 separate churches served the German population of Louisville in the 19th century?
... that in addition to its bus services, Louisville's Transit Authority of River City operates diesel-powered, rubber-tired trolleys to service downtown hotel and shopping districts?
... that the United States owns all of Zachary Taylor National Cemetery, except where Zachary Taylor and his family are actually buried?

Archive...



edit  
Southern Indiana



Jeffersonville, Indiana, often called Jeff, is the county seat of Clark County, Indiana, along the Ohio River. It is directly across the Ohio River from Louisville, Kentucky to the north along I-65. In 1802 local residents used a grid pattern designed by Thomas Jefferson for the formation of a city, and Indiana Territorial Governor William Henry Harrison decided to name the new city after Jefferson. Jeffersonville would be the only city ever designed by Jefferson.
In 1819 the first shipbuilding took place in Jeffersonville, and steamboats would become key to Jeffersonville's economy. James Howard made his first steamboat in 1834 in Jeffersonville named the Hyperion. This history is best expressed at the Howard Steamboat Museum.



Read more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Sister cities




Bushmills, Northern Ireland
Jiujiang, China
La Plata, Argentina
Mainz, Germany
















Montpellier, France
Perm, Russia
Quito, Ecuador
Tamale, Ghana



















edit  
On this day in Louisville history...




(2007) Captain Mark Doty becomes new captain of the Belle of Louisville

Archive...




edit  
Selected attraction



The Little Loomhouse is a place on the National Register of Historic Places in the Kenwood Hill neighborhood on the south side of Louisville, Kentucky. It consists of three log cabins from the 1800s Victorian Era: Esta Cabin, Tophouse, and Wistaria Cabin. It not only displays weavings, but demonstrates how they are made as well. It is the biggest repository of original and classic textile patterns in the United States.
The Esta Cabin encapsulates the history of the Loomhouse, and is the cabin where the song Happy Birthday to You was first sung. The Tophouse was built as a summer home for the well-to-do Sam Stone Bush in 1896. Wistaria holds the office and giftshop.



Read more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Selected biography


Colonel Sanders (September 9, 1890 – December 16, 1980), whose full name was Harland David Sanders, was the founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken (KFC). His image is omnipresent in the chain's advertising and packaging.
At the age of 40, Sanders cooked chicken dishes for people who stopped at his service station in Corbin, Kentucky. Since he did not have a restaurant, he served customers in his living quarters in the service station. Eventually, his local popularity grew, and Sanders moved to a motel and restaurant that seated 142 people and worked as the chef. Over the next nine years, he perfected his method of cooking chicken. Furthermore, he made use of a pressure fryer that allowed the chicken to be cooked much faster than by pan-frying. He was given the honorary title "Kentucky Colonel" in 1935 by Governor Ruby Laffoon. Sanders chose to call himself "Colonel" and to dress in a stereotypical "southern gentleman" costume as a way of self-promotion. Sanders sold his franchise in 1964, although he remained their corporate spokesman until his death.



Read more...



...Archive/Nominations







edit  
Quotes



"It all keeps me busy, I love Louisville. I'll always be in Louisville." – Paul Hornung


"It's important to support this because of what happened right here. It's like living in Louisville and someone never having been to the Derby. I don't think a lot of people realize what goes on here." – Mark Wells


"As the state's biggest city, Louisville sets the precedent." – Mike Kuntz


"In Pakistan anti-American protesters set a Kentucky Fried chicken restaurant on fire. The protesters mistakenly thought they were attacking high-ranking U.S. military official Colonel Sanders." – Jimmy Fallon





edit  
Sister portals/WikiProjects




Kentucky
Indiana
Indianapolis
Cincinnati
















Portal
Portal
Portal
Portal


WikiProject
WikiProject
WikiProject
WikiProject






edit  
Things you can do




Join WikiProject Louisville
Improve Louisville, Kentucky with the hopes of making it Featured again. (To do list)
Bring following articles to Good article status:

Muhammad Ali
Colonel Sanders
History of Louisville, Kentucky
Louisville Metro Hall
University of Louisville


Patrol changes to and cleanup issues in Louisville area-related pages
Create a Louisville requested article, especially:

Louisville Cardinals women's basketball (currently a redirect)
St. Joseph's College (Kentucky) (currently a redirect)
Jim Porter (tavern keeper)
Mike Linnig's
Eva Bandman Park


Obtain pictures for:

Home of the Innocents
Kentucky Derby Museum
Louisville Falls Fountain
Ohio River Bridges Project
Terry Meiners














v
t
e


Louisville, Kentucky (metro area)






History



Timeline
George Rogers Clark–founder
Civil War
Historic places











Geography



Downtown
Cityscape
Climate
Local landmarks
Neighborhoods
Parks
Preservation districts (Old Louisville)








Government



Mayor (Greg Fischer)
Metro Council (President: David Yates)








Transportation



Bowman Field
Louisville International Airport
McAlpine Locks and Dam
Roads
TARC








Other subject
areas



Attractions and events
Cuisine
Economy
Education
Media
People
Performing arts
Religion
Sports








Top subjects



Muhammad Ali
Cave Hill Cemetery
Falls of the Ohio
Farmington
Kentucky Derby (Festival)
KFC

History
Colonel Sanders


L&N
Louisville Slugger
University of Louisville (Cardinals)








National Historic
Landmarks



Belle of Louisville
Churchill Downs
Historic Locust Grove
Mayor Andrew Broaddus
Old Bank
Zachary Taylor House
United States Marine Hospital
Water Tower








Prominent suburbs
(over 10K pop.)



Clarksville
Jeffersontown
Jeffersonville
Lyndon
New Albany
St. Matthews
Shelbyville
Shepherdsville
Shively











 Category (city)
 Category (metro area)
 Portal
 WikiProject








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Louisville on Wikinews
Louisville on Wikiquote
Louisville on Wikibooks
Louisville on Wikisource
Louisville on Wiktionary
Louisville on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images







What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Louisville&oldid=695642585"					
Categories: United States portals by cityLouisville, KentuckyHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 17 December 2015, at 14:42.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.248","walltime":"0.491","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1712,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":98604,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6761,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  340.617      1 -total"," 45.58%  155.261      6 Template:Random_portal_component","  9.75%   33.203      1 Portal:Louisville/Intro","  9.11%   31.043      3 Template:IPAc-en","  8.48%   28.889      1 Template:Louisville","  7.78%   26.493      1 Template:Navbox","  7.13%   24.273      1 Portal:Louisville/Selected_article/Layout","  7.01%   23.887      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.18%   21.049      1 Template:Top_icon","  5.95%   20.258      1 Portal:Louisville/Quotes"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.072","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1689691,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1181","timestamp":"20170206171809","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":583,"wgHostname":"mw1181"});});
