 







Portal:Massachusetts

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology






edit  
The Massachusetts Portal



State Quarter



Massachusetts i/ˌmæsəˈtʃuːsᵻts/, officially the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States of America. It is the 7th smallest, but the 14th most populous and the 3rd most densely populated of the 50 United States, and has the United States' sixth highest GDP per capita.
Massachusetts has played a significant historical, cultural, and commercial role in American history. Plymouth was the site of the colony founded in 1620 by the Pilgrims. Harvard University, founded in 1636, is the oldest institution of higher learning in the United States. The Protestant First Great Awakening originated from the pulpit of Northampton, Massachusetts preacher Jonathan Edwards. In the late 18th century, Boston became known as the "Cradle of Liberty" for the agitation there that led to the American Revolution. In 1786, a populist revolt led directly to the Constitutional Convention. Before the American Civil War, Massachusetts was a center for the temperance, transcendentalist, and abolitionist movements. In the late 19th century, basketball and volleyball were invented in Springfield and Holyoke, respectively. In 2004, Massachusetts became the first U.S. state to legally recognize same-sex marriage.
Originally dependent on fishing, agriculture, and trade, Massachusetts was transformed into a manufacturing center during the Industrial Revolution. During the 20th century, Massachusetts' economy shifted from manufacturing to services. In the 21st century, Massachusetts is a leader in higher education, health care technology, high technology, and financial services.


More about Massachusetts...





Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Hurricane Dog was the most intense hurricane in the 1950 Atlantic hurricane season. The fourth named storm of the season, Dog developed on August 30 to the east of Antigua; after passing through the northern Lesser Antilles, it turned to the north and intensified into a Category 5 hurricane. Dog reached its peak intensity with winds of 185 mph (300 km/h) over the open Atlantic and after weakening, it passed within 200 miles (320 km) of Cape Cod. The storm became extratropical on September 12.
Before reaching the United States, Hurricane Dog caused extensive damage to the Leeward Islands, and was considered the most severe hurricane on record in Antigua. Many buildings were destroyed or severely damaged on the island, with thousands left homeless just weeks after Hurricane Baker caused serious damage there.
The hurricane produced high tides and rough surf along the East Coast of the United States, with coastal flooding reported along some beaches in Rhode Island. The hurricane capsized or damaged several boats along the coastline, including two large vessels in Nantucket. In Marblehead, Massachusetts, the surf grounded at least 15 vessels from the harbor onto a coastal causeway. Near Cape Cod, damage to fishermen's assets totaled $150,000 (1950 USD, $1.34 million 2009 USD). Tides along Nantucket were reported at the highest levels since the 1944 Great Atlantic Hurricane. Hurricane Dog produced powerful wind gusts along coastal areas of New England, which caused widespread power outages, including a loss of power to 15 towns on Cape Cod, to hundreds of residences on Nantucket, and to several other locations in the area. Overall damage was fairly light, totaling about $2 million (1950 USD, $17.8 million 2009 USD)—a much lower total than would have been expected if the hurricane had made landfall. In all, 12 people died in New England as a result of the hurricane.



More selected articles...



Read more...







edit  
Selected biography



Thomas Jerome Hudner, Jr. is a retired officer of the United States Navy and a former naval aviator. He rose to the rank of captain, and received the Medal of Honor for his actions in trying to save the life of his wingman, Ensign Jesse L. Brown, during the Battle of Chosin Reservoir in the Korean War. Born in Fall River, Massachusetts, Hudner attended Phillips Academy and the United States Naval Academy. Initially uninterested in aviation, he eventually took up flying and joined Fighter Squadron 32, flying the F4U Corsair at the outbreak of the Korean War. Arriving near Korea in October 1950, he flew support missions from the USS Leyte. Following the incident for which Hudner was awarded the Medal of Honor, Hudner held positions aboard several U.S. Navy ships and with a number of aviation units, including a brief stint as Executive Officer of the USS Kitty Hawk during a brief tour in the Vietnam War, before retiring in 1973. In subsequent years, he has worked for various veterans organizations in the United States. He is currently living in retirement in Concord, Massachusetts. The Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS Thomas Hudner will be named for him.



More selected biographies...



Read more...







edit  
Selected location



Uxbridge is a town in Worcester County, incorporated in 1727, and named for the Earl of Uxbridge, England. Uxbridge is the midpoint of the Blackstone Valley National Historic Park. In 1662, a Nipmuc chief, deeded land to settlers. Deborah Sampson posed as an Uxbridge soldier in the Revolutionary War. 140 years of manufacturing military uniforms and clothing began with 1820 power looms. The town weaves a unique "tapestry of early America".
Lt. Colonel Seth Reed, who fought at Lexington and Bunker Hill, was instrumental in adding E Pluribus Unum to U.S. Coins. Shays Rebellion's opening salvos led Governor John Hancock to order suppression of local riots. By 1855, 560 workers manufactured 22,859 km of cloth. Local innovators developed blended fabrics, 'wash and wear', and cashmeres. "Uxbridge Blue" became the first US Air Force Dress Uniform. Uxbridge granted rights to America's first woman voter, Lydia Chapin Taft. America's first hospital for mental illness was established here. Two local Quakers became national antislavery champions. Brian Skerry is a National Geographic photojournalist, protecting global sea life. BJ's Wholesale Club distribution warehouse looms large here today.



More selected locations...



Read more...










edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Alberto Fernandez Fernandez (2006)



The Gay Head Cliffs in Aquinnah, a town in Martha's Vineyard



More selected pictures...



Read more...







edit  
State facts







Location of Massachusetts in the United States





Capital: Boston
Governor: Charlie Baker (R)
Lieutenant Governor: Karyn Polito (R)
Secretary of the Commonwealth: William F. Galvin (D)
Attorney General: Maura Healey (D)
Treasurer: Deb Goldberg (D)
Auditor: Suzanne M. Bump (D)
U.S. Senators: Elizabeth Warren (D), Ed Markey (D)
Area: Ranked 44th in the US

Total: 10,555 sq miles (27,336 km²)

Width: 183 miles (295 km)
Length: 113 miles (182 km)
% Water: 25.7




Latitude: 41° 14′ N to 42° 53′ N
Longitude: 69° 56′ W to 73° 30′ W
Population:

Total: 6,349,097 (13th in U.S.)
Population Density: 809.8/sq miles (312.7/km²) (3rd in U.S.)


Median income: $ 46,721 (3rd, 2006)
Elevation:

Highest point: Mount Greylock 3,491 ft (1,064 m)
Mean: 500 ft (150 m)
Lowest point: Atlantic Ocean 0 ft (0 m)


Ratification of Constitution: February 6, 1788 (6th)






Atlas of Massachusetts with Greater Boston highlighted









edit  
Did you know




... that George Washington and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow both lived in the same house on Brattle Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts?
... that the life of Wenlock Christison, who was condemned to death for being a Quaker while in Massachusetts Bay Colony by Governor John Endicott, was spared by King Charles II?
... that author and anti-globalization advocate Tim Costello started his writing career in the back of his truck while traveling as a long-haul truck driver?
... that a nor'easter in December 1992 washed over 20 whales onshore along Cape Cod, killing seven of them?
... that Harvard All-American Bert Waters was accused of jabbing a finger into a Yale player's eye in the 1893 football game that became known as "The Bloodbath in Hampden Park"?

Read more...



edit  
In this month




February 3, 1794 – The Federal Street Theatre, the first purpose built theater in Boston, holds its opening performance.
February 6, 1788 – Massachusetts becomes the sixth state to ratify the United States Constitution.
February 9, 1895 – Volleyball, then called Mintonette, is created by William G. Morgan in Holyoke.
February 17, 1968 – The Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame (pictured) opens in Springfield, the city where Naismith invented the sport.

Read more...




edit  
Featured content


Featured articles


 21st Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry
 22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry
 Samuel Adams
 Museum of Bad Art
 Boston
 1689 Boston revolt
 USS Constitution
 Calvin Coolidge
 Emily Dickinson
 W. E. B. Du Bois
 Black Francis
 Godsmack
 Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
 Humpback whale
 Anne Hutchinson
 Lexington-Concord Sesquicentennial half dollar
 Lockdown (2008)
 James Russell Lowell
 USS Massachusetts (BB-2)
 Metacomet Ridge
 Mary Margaret O'Reilly
 1991 Perfect Storm
 Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman
 Plymouth Colony
 Edgar Allan Poe
 Right whale
 Mitt Romney
 Myles Standish
 Summer of '42
 Tropical Storm Carrie (1972)
 Samuel Merrill Woodbridge


Featured lists


 List of Boston Celtics head coaches
 List of Boston Latin School alumni
 Boston Reds (1890–1891) all-time roster
 Godsmack discography
 List of MBTA Commuter Rail stations
 List of birds of Massachusetts
 List of counties in Massachusetts
 List of tallest buildings in Boston
 List of colonial governors of Massachusetts


Featured pictures


 File:1937 all stars crop FINAL2.jpg
 File:Boston, 1775bsmall1.png
 File:Boston Massacre high-res.jpg
 File:Brandeisl.jpg
 File:Charles P. Stone2b.jpg
 File:Edgar Allan Poe 2.jpg
 File:Hurricane Bob 19 aug 1991 1226Z.jpg
 File:JFK library Stitch Crop.jpg
 File:John F Kennedy Official Portrait.jpg
 File:King Kelly 0554fu.jpg
 File:Massachusetts state coat of arms (illustrated, 1876).jpg
 File:Salem witch2.jpg
 File:The Gerry-Mander Edit.png






edit  
Categories


Click [+] or ► to view subcategories



▼ Massachusetts


► Massachusetts-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Massachusetts



► Communications in Massachusetts



► Massachusetts culture



► Demographics of Massachusetts



► Economy of Massachusetts



► Education in Massachusetts



► Environment of Massachusetts



► Geography of Massachusetts



► Government of Massachusetts



► Health in Massachusetts



► History of Massachusetts



► Landmarks in Massachusetts



► Massachusetts law



► Military in Massachusetts



► Native American tribes in Massachusetts



► People from Massachusetts



► Politics of Massachusetts



► Science and technology in Massachusetts



► Massachusetts society



► Sports in Massachusetts



► Tourist attractions in Massachusetts



► Transportation in Massachusetts



► Wikipedia books on Massachusetts



► Images of Massachusetts



► Massachusetts stubs












edit  
Related portals





North America



United States



New England



Boston



Cape Cod and the Islands



U.S. Roads



Connecticut



New Hampshire



New York



Rhode Island



Vermont



Mitt Romney








edit  
WikiProjects




U.S. states



Massachusetts



Massachusetts State Highways



Boston



Boston Celtics



Boston Red Sox



Universities







edit  
Things to do









Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests :
 • Create Boston Neighborhood Section - locate and add existing Boston articles to Project
 • Create articles for all Massachusetts Newspapers and add newspapers and other publications that are not on the list.
Cleanup : Massachusetts articles needing attention
Expand : Blandford Ski Area, Polar Beverages
Featured article candidates : * No results were found.
Featured list candidates : * No results were found.
Featured sound candidates : * No results were found.
Good article nominations : *


 Ayer (MBTA station)
 Foster Furcolo
 Thomas Talbot (Massachusetts)
 Wachusett (MBTA station)
 Wedgemere (MBTA station)



Geographical coordinates : Massachusetts articles missing geocoordinate data
Infobox : Massachusetts articles needing infoboxes
Map : Requested maps in Massachusetts
Photo : Requested photographs in Massachusetts
Stubs : Stub-Class Massachusetts articles
Unreferenced : Unreferenced Massachusetts articles
Other : *Improve Massachusetts to featured article status.
Improve Government of Massachusetts to good status or better.
Improve Geography of Massachusetts to good status or better.
Improve Politics of Massachusetts to B status or better.
Update all cities, towns, counties, etc. government info section to reflect the changes in the senate delegation. (To keep uniformity throughout state articles, please use this update: The state's senior (Class I) member of the United States Senate is Elizabeth Warren. The junior (Class II) senator is Ed Markey.)
Standardize the articles on all 298 towns and 53 cities in Massachusetts.
Place the {{WikiProject United States|class=|importance=|MA=Yes|MA-importance=}} banner into Massachusetts related articles and assess









edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Massachusetts on Wikibooks 
Massachusetts on Wikimedia Commons
Massachusetts on Wikinews 
Massachusetts on Wikiquote 
Massachusetts on Wikisource 
Massachusetts on Wikiversity 
Massachusetts on Wiktionary 
Massachusetts on Wikivoyage 


Manuals and books
Images and media
News
Quotations
Texts
Learning resources
Definitions
Travel guide



















































Commonwealth of Massachusetts







Boston (capital)






Topics




Index
Administrative divisions
Congressional districts
Elections
Geography
Geology
Government
History
Images
Music
People
Sports
State symbols
Transportation
Villages
Tourist Attractions
Windmills









Society




Culture
Crime
Demographics
Economy
Education
Politics









Regions




The Berkshires
Blackstone Valley
Cape Ann
Cape Cod
Central Massachusetts
Greater Boston
The Islands
Merrimack Valley
MetroWest
Montachusett-North County
North Shore
Pioneer Valley
Quabbin Valley
Southeastern Massachusetts
South Coast
South County
South Shore
Western Massachusetts









Counties




Barnstable
Berkshire
Bristol
Dukes
Essex
Franklin
Hampden
Hampshire
Middlesex
Nantucket
Norfolk
Plymouth
Suffolk
Worcester









Cities




Agawam
Amesbury
Attleboro
Barnstable
Beverly
Boston
Braintree
Bridgewater
Brockton
Cambridge
Chelsea
Chicopee
Easthampton
Everett
Fall River
Fitchburg
Franklin
Gardner
Gloucester
Greenfield
Haverhill
Holyoke
Lawrence
Leominster
Lowell
Lynn
Malden
Marlborough
Medford
Melrose
Methuen
New Bedford
Newburyport
Newton
North Adams
Northampton
Palmer
Peabody
Pittsfield
Quincy
Randolph
Revere
Salem
Somerville
Southbridge
Springfield
Taunton
Waltham
Watertown
Westfield
West Springfield
Weymouth
Winthrop
Woburn
Worcester










What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Massachusetts&oldid=662643180"					
Categories: United States portals by state or territoryMassachusetts portalsMassachusetts portalMassachusettsHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 16 May 2015, at 19:50.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.432","walltime":"0.653","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4741,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":177857,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":40965,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":26,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  469.789      1 -total"," 30.33%  142.474      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 16.55%   77.759      4 Template:Columns-list"," 16.43%   77.169      1 Portal:Massachusetts/Featured_and_Good_Content"," 15.20%   71.394      1 Portal:Massachusetts/Selected_article/Layout"," 13.93%   65.462     58 Template:Icon"," 12.41%   58.303      1 Portal:Massachusetts/Related_portals"," 12.07%   56.696      1 Template:Related_portals2","  9.65%   45.346     12 Template:Related_portal_item","  9.46%   44.453      1 Portal:Massachusetts/Intro"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.186","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5652877,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1266","timestamp":"20170208092239","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":736,"wgHostname":"mw1266"});});
