 







Portal:New England

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Shortcut:

P:NEWENG




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The New England portal



Welcome to the New England portal. New England is a region in the northeastern corner of the United States consisting of the six states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. New England is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean, Canada, and the State of New York.
In one of the earliest English settlements in North America, pilgrims from England first settled in New England in 1620 to form Plymouth Colony. Ten years later, the Puritans settled north of Plymouth Colony in Boston, thus forming Massachusetts Bay Colony. In the late 18th century, the New England Colonies initiated the resistance to the British Parliament's efforts to impose new taxes without the consent of the colonists. This confrontation led to open warfare in 1775, the expulsion of the British from New England in spring 1776, and the Declaration of Independence in July 1776.
Some of the first movements of American literature, philosophy, and education originated in New England. The region played a prominent role in the movement to abolish slavery, and was the first region of the United States to be transformed by the Industrial Revolution. Today, New England is a major world center of education, technology, insurance, and medicine. Boston is its cultural, financial, educational, medical and transportation center.


More about New England...





View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article






Boston is the capital of Massachusetts and its largest city, and is one of the oldest cities in the United States. The largest city in New England, Boston is regarded as the unofficial "Capital of New England" for its economic and cultural impact on the entire New England region. The city proper, covering 48.43 square miles (125.43 square km), had a population of 617,594 according to the 2010 U.S. Census. Boston is also the anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area called Greater Boston, home to 4.5 million people and the tenth-largest metropolitan area in the country. Greater Boston as a commuting region is home to 7.6 million people, making it the fifth-largest Combined Statistical Area in the United States.
In 1630, Puritan colonists from England founded the city on the Shawmut Peninsula.During the late 18th century, Boston was the location of several major events during the American Revolution, including the Boston Massacre and the Boston Tea Party. Several early battles of the American Revolution, such as the Battle of Bunker Hill and the Siege of Boston, occurred within the city and surrounding areas. Through land reclamation and municipal annexation, Boston has expanded beyond the peninsula. After American independence was attained Boston became a major shipping port and manufacturing center, and its rich history helps attract many tourists, with Faneuil Hall alone attracting over 20 million every year. The city was the site of several firsts, including the United States' first public school, Boston Latin School, and the first subway system in the United States.



More selected articles...
Read more...

More articles...



edit  
Selected biography






James Gillespie Blaine was an American Republican politician who served as United States Representative, Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, U.S. Senator from Maine, and twice as Secretary of State. He was nominated for President in 1884, but was narrowly defeated by Democrat Grover Cleveland. Blaine was one of the late 19th century's leading Republicans and champion of the moderate reformist faction of the party known as the "Half-Breeds".
Blaine was born in western Pennsylvania and moved to Maine where he became a newspaper editor. Nicknamed "the Magnetic Man," he was a charismatic speaker in an era that prized oratory. He began his political career as an early supporter of Abraham Lincoln and the Union war effort in the American Civil War. In Reconstruction, Blaine was a supporter of black suffrage, but opposed some of the more coercive measures of the Radical Republicans. Initially a protectionist, he later worked for a reduction in the tariff and an expansion of American trade with foreign countries. Railroad promotion and construction were important issues in his time, and as a result of his interest and support Blaine was widely suspected of corruption in the awarding of railroad charters; these allegations plagued his 1884 presidential candidacy.




Read more…

More biographies...



edit  
Selected State






New Hampshire
Incorporated 1776
Co-ordinates 44°N 71.5°W

New Hampshire, named after the southern English county of Hampshire, is the 5th least extensive and the 9th least populous of the 50 U.S. states.
It became the first post-colonial sovereign nation in the Americas when it broke off from Great Britain in January 1776, and six months later was one of the original thirteen states that founded the United States of America. In June 1788, it became the ninth state to ratify the United States Constitution, bringing that document into effect. New Hampshire was the first U.S. state to have its own state constitution.
It is known internationally for the New Hampshire primary, the first primary in the U.S. presidential election cycle. Concord is the state capital, while Manchester is the largest city in the state. It has no general sales tax, nor is personal income (other than interest and dividends) taxed at either the state or local level.







Read more...


More states...





edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Sir Thomas Hyde Page (1777)
British map of intrenchments during the Boston campaign of the American Revolutionary War

 Read more...
More pictures...



edit  
Did you know...






... that the house (pictured) in Danbury, Connecticut, where Charles Ives was born has been moved twice to allow local banks to expand their buildings?
... that descendants of Wigglesworth Dole included a missionary to Hawaii, a governor of Hawaii, an attorney general of Hawaii, and a "pineapple king"?
... that during their first football game against Yale in 1884, the Dartmouth Big Green were routed, 113–0?
... that until 1950, only descendants of Massachusetts Bay or Plymouth colonists could become members of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts?
... that Michael Roach, an American professional soccer player, played in college with future teammates Kevin Alston and Alec Purdie?

More facts...



edit  
Categories


Select ► to view subcategories



▼ New England


► New England states



► Culture of New England



► Boarding schools in New England



► Economy of New England



► Energy in New England



► Geography of New England



► History of New England



► Hurricanes in New England



► Long Island Sound



► Religion in New England



► New England society



► Sports in New England



► Transportation in New England












edit  
Topics



Flag • Culture • Cuisine • Economy • Government • Geography • History • Population • Sports • Transportation





edit  
Related portals




Connecticut portal
Maine portal
Massachusetts portal
New Hampshire portal
Rhode Island portal
Vermont portal








edit  
WikiProjects
























Connecticut 
Maine 
Massachusetts 
New Hampshire
Rhode Island 
Vermont 








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:New_England&oldid=644101857"					
Categories: United States portalsNew EnglandHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 13:52.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.136","walltime":"0.235","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1607,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":78133,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":8039,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  161.491      1 -total"," 38.03%   61.422      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.58%   18.706      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.02%   17.794      1 Portal:New_England/Related_portals"," 10.37%   16.754      1 Template:Portal_bar"," 10.30%   16.627      1 Portal:New_England/Categories"," 10.05%   16.229      1 Template:Shortcut"," 10.05%   16.224      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.32%   11.823      1 Template:Category_handler","  6.87%   11.097     11 Portal:Box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.043","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1609015,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1255","timestamp":"20170208083711","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":78,"wgHostname":"mw1262"});});
