 







Portal:Finger Lakes

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology






edit  
The Finger Lakes Portal



Map of the Finger Lakes region


The Finger Lakes are a chain of lakes in the west-central section of Upstate New York that are a popular tourist destination. The lakes mainly are linear in shape, each lake oriented on a north-south axis. The longest, Cayuga Lake and Seneca Lake, are among the deepest in America. Both are close to 40 miles (64 km) from end to end, but never more than 3.5 miles (5,600 m) wide. Cayuga is the longest with 38 miles (61 km), but Seneca the largest in total area. Seneca is the deepest (618 feet, 188 m), followed by Cayuga (435 feet, 132 m), with the bottoms well below sea level. These largest lakes resemble the others in shape, which collectively reminded early map-makers of the fingers of a hand.
The fourteen lakes located in the Finger Lakes region are: Seneca, Canandaigua, Skaneateles, Owasco, Otisco, Cayuga, Conesus, Honeoye, Hemlock, Canadice, Keuka, Oneida, Cazenovia, and Onondaga. The following counties of New York State make up the Finger Lakes region: Seneca, Cayuga, Cortland, Livingston, Monroe, Onondaga, Ontario, Oswego, Schuyler, Seneca, Steuben, Tompkins, Wayne, and Yates.
Finger Lakes cities and larger villages are situated at the head and foot of most major lakes: Skaneateles, Auburn, Ithaca, Geneva, Watkins Glen, Penn Yan, Hammondsport and Canandaigua. These historic communities with scenic situations all are tourist destinations, as is the village of Aurora, which is situated on the east shore of Cayuga Lake, and Naples, located about five miles south of Canandaigua Lake.


More about the Finger Lakes...





Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Syracuse (local /ˈsɛrəkjuːs/, /ˈsɪrəkjuːs/ or /ˈsɪərəkjuːs/) is a city in Central New York, USA. According to the 2000 census, the city population was 147,306, and its metropolitan area had a population of 732,117. It is the county seat of Onondaga County and the economic and educational hub of Central New York, a region with over a million inhabitants. Syracuse is also well provided with convention sites, with a downtown convention complex and the Empire Expo Center directly west of the city, which hosts the annual Great New York State Fair. Syracuse was named after the original Syracuse, a city on the eastern coast of Sicily, Italy. The city has functioned as a major crossroads over the last two centuries, first between the Erie Canal and its branch canals, then of the railway network. Today, Syracuse is located by the intersection of Interstates 90 and 81, and its airport is the largest in the region.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected attraction



Ganondagan State Historic Site also known as Boughton Hill is a Native American historical site in Ontario County, New York in the USA. The historic site is in the Town of Victor, southwest of the Village of Victor. It consists of two areas: a 245 acre Boughton Hill portion is a National Historic Landmark, and the Fort Hill portion, 33 acres, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Ganondagan was a Seneca village in the Western gateway to the Iroqouis domain. It is the at the center of the legend that gave birth to the modern confederacy. Seneca oral tradition tells of a Huron man who arrived among the Mohawks speaking of peace and an ordered society. This prophet is known today as the The Great Peacemaker. The Mohawk, Oneida, and Cayuga pledged to join his proposed confederation, and following a dramatic interlude, the Seneca agreed also. The discussion about how to bring in the Onondaga found its way into the house of a Seneca woman, Jikonsase, now known as the Mother of Nations. She proposed a solution which eventually brought the Onondaga into the fold. She lived in the vicinity of Ganondagan, and is buried nearby. The Seneca refer to Ganondagan as the "Town of Peace", and revere and protect the burial site of the Mother of Nations.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Choess



An abutment of the Ithaca-Auburn Short Line bridge in Twin Glens.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






February 5, 1915 – Death of Ross Barnes (born 1850 in Mount Morris, New York), star of baseball's National Association and the early National League
February 15, 1820 – Birth of Susan B. Anthony (pictured), an American civil rights leader who was influential in the women's rights movement to introduce women's suffrage into the United States
February 18, 1979 – Record low temperature of -26 °F (-32 °C) recorded in Syracuse, New York
February 22, 1839 – Birth of Francis Pharcellus Church in Rochester, New York – an American publisher and editor
February 29, 1944 – Commissioning of USS Cayuga County, an LST-491-class tank landing ship built for the United States Navy during World War II

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected lake



Cayuga Lake (pronounced either "kā-'yü-gə" or "kī-'yü-gə") is the longest of western New York's glacial Finger Lakes, and is the second largest in surface area (marginally smaller than Seneca Lake) and volume. It is just under 40 miles (64 km) long. Its average width is 1.7 miles (2.7 km), and it is 3.5 miles (5.6 km) wide at its widest point near Aurora. It is approximately 435 ft (133 m) deep at its deepest point. The lake has one small island near Union Springs, Frontenac Island, which is one of only two islands in all of the Finger Lakes. Ithaca, New York, site of Cornell University and Ithaca College, sits at the southern end of Cayuga Lake. Cornell's alma mater or official school song makes reference to its position "Far Above Cayuga's Waters". Villages and settlements along the east shore of Cayuga Lake include Myers, King Ferry, Aurora, Levanna, Union Springs, and Cayuga. Settlements along the west shore of the lake include Sheldrake, Poplar Beach, and Canoga.



...Archive



More...







edit  
Selected biography



Glenn Hammond Curtiss (21 May 1878 – 23 July 1930) was an aviation pioneer and founder of the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Company, now part of Curtiss-Wright Corporation. In 1930, he was awarded a Medal of Honor for his significant aviation accomplishments. Curtiss was born in 1878 in Hammondsport, New York to Frank Richmond Curtiss and Lua Andrews. Although he only received a formal education up to Grade 8, his early interest in mechanics and inventions was evident at his first job at the Eastman Dry Plate and Film Company (later Eastman Kodak Company) in Rochester, New York. He invented a stencil machine adopted at the plant and later built a rudimentary camera to study photography. On 7 March 1898, Curtiss married Lena Pearl Neff, daughter of Guy L. Neff, in Logansport, Indiana. Curtiss began his career as a bicycle racer, Western Union bicycle messenger, and bicycle shop owner. He developed an interest in motorcycles when internal combustion engines became more available.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that the new Carl E. Stotz Memorial Little League Bridge (pictured) over the West Branch Susquehanna River between Williamsport and South Williamsport in Pennsylvania is the seventh on that site, and that three of the previous bridges were destroyed by floods?
... that the biopsychosocial model was theorized by George L. Engel at the University of Rochester Medical Center and putatively discussed in a 1977 article in the journal Science?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
WikiProjects




WikiProject Lakes
WikiProject New York

WikiProject Syracuse, New York
WikiProject Western New York




What are WikiProjects?





edit  
Categories



Finger Lakes • Cayuga County • Cortland County • Livingston County • Monroe County • Onondaga County • Ontario County • Oswego County • Schuyler County • Seneca County • Steuben County • Tompkins County • Wayne County • Yates County






edit  
Quality content



Featured articles: New York State Route 174 · New York State Route 175 · Cornell University
Good articles: Marcellus Formation · Elizabeth Cady Stanton · First Presbyterian Church of Marcellus · New York State Route 5 · New York State Route 20N · New York State Route 20SY · New York State Route 92 · New York State Route 317 · New York State Route 318 · New York State Route 321 · New York State Route 359 · New York State Route 368




edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Lakes}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of WikiProject Lakes.
Article development: Improve an article on one of the Finger Lakes
Peer review: None at this time
FAC/GAC candidates: None at this time
Rate the unassessed lake articles in WikiProject Lakes
Requested articles: Cascade, New York, Fall Creek (stream), Glenora Wine Cellars, Heron Hill Winery, Ithaca Falls, Keuka Spring Vineyards, McGregor Vineyard Winery, Onondaga Salt Springs, Ravines Wine Cellars, Rockwell Museum of Western Art, Rooster Hill Vineyards, Stever Hill Vineyards, Times-Union Tract, Wings of Eagles Discovery Center





edit  
Related portals











New York
New York City
Hudson Valley
Capital District
Syracuse






edit  
Associated Wikimedia





New York State on Wikinews    
New York State on Wikiquote    
New York State on Wikibooks    
New York State on Wiktionary    
New York State on Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Definitions
Images

























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Finger_Lakes&oldid=649285717"					
Categories: Finger Lakes portalFinger LakesNew York portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 21:47.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.140","walltime":"0.331","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1745,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":87057,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":9569,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  246.480      1 -total"," 52.94%  130.476      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 12.97%   31.971      1 Portal:Finger_Lakes/Intro"," 11.45%   28.215      1 Portal:Finger_Lakes/Intro/Image","  9.89%   24.381      1 Template:Random_subpage","  8.94%   22.029      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.00%   19.713      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.05%   17.387      1 Portal:Finger_Lakes/Selected_article/Layout","  6.36%   15.675      1 Portal:Finger_Lakes/Wikimedia","  6.21%   15.300      1 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.046","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1628945,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1266","timestamp":"20170206112127","ttl":86400,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":71,"wgHostname":"mw1271"});});
