 







Portal:Norway

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
Norway Portal
Norge Portal











Norway i/ˈnɔːrweɪ/ (Norwegian:  Norge (Bokmål) or  Noreg (Nynorsk)), officially the Kingdom of Norway, is a Scandinavian unitary constitutional monarchy whose territory comprises the western portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula, Jan Mayen, the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard and the subantarctic Bouvet Island. The Spitsbergen Treaty (also known as the Svalbard Treaty) of February 9, 1920, recognizes the full and absolute sovereignty of Norway over the arctic archipelago of Spitsbergen (now called Svalbard). Peter I Island is dependent territory (Norwegian: biland) of Norway but is not considered part of the Kingdom. Norway also lays claim to a section of Antarctica known as Queen Maud Land. Norway has a total area of 385,252 square kilometres (148,747 sq mi) and a population of about 5 million. It is the second least densely populated country in Europe. The majority of the country shares a border to the east with Sweden; its northernmost region is bordered by Finland to the south and Russia to the east; in its south Norway borders the Skagerrak Strait across from Denmark. The capital city of Norway is Oslo. Norway's extensive coastline, facing the North Atlantic Ocean and the Barents Sea, is home to its famous fjords.
Two centuries of Viking raids tapered off following the adoption of Christianity by King Olav Tryggvason in 994. A period of civil war ended in the 13th century when Norway expanded its control overseas to parts of Britain, Ireland, Iceland, and Greenland. Norwegian territorial power peaked in 1265, but competition from the Hanseatic League and the spread of the Black Death weakened the country. In 1380, Norway was absorbed into a union with Denmark that lasted more than four centuries. In 1814, Norwegians resisted the cession of their country to Sweden and adopted a new constitution. Sweden then invaded Norway but agreed to let Norway keep its constitution in return for accepting the union under a Swedish king. Rising nationalism throughout the 19th century led to a 1905 referendum granting Norway independence. Although Norway remained neutral in World War I, it suffered heavy losses to its shipping. Norway proclaimed its neutrality at the outset of World War II, but was nonetheless occupied for five years by the Third Reich. In 1949, neutrality was abandoned and Norway became a founding member of NATO. Discovery of oil and gas in adjacent waters in the late 1960s boosted Norway's economic fortunes. In referenda held in 1972 and 1994, Norway rejected joining the EU. Key domestic issues include immigration and integration of ethnic minorities, maintaining the country's extensive social safety net with an aging population, and preserving economic competitiveness.
Norway is a unitary parliamentary democracy and constitutional monarchy, with King Harald V as its head of state and Erna Solberg as its prime minister. It is a unitary state with administrative subdivisions on two levels known as counties (fylke) and municipalities (kommuner). The Sámi people have a certain amount of self-determination and influence over traditional territories through the Sámi Parliament and the Finnmark Act. Although having rejected European Union membership in two referenda, Norway maintains close ties with the union and its member countries, as well as with the United States. Norway remains one of the biggest financial contributors to the United Nations, and participates with UN forces in international missions, notably in Afghanistan, Kosovo, Sudan and Libya. Norway is a founding member of the United Nations, NATO, the Council of Europe, and the Nordic Council; a member of the European Economic Area, the WTO, and the OECD; and is also a part of Schengen Area.
Norway has extensive reserves of petroleum, natural gas, minerals, lumber, seafood, fresh water, and hydropower. The country has the fourth-highest per capita income in the world. On a per-capita basis, it is the world's largest producer of oil and natural gas outside the Middle East, and the petroleum industry accounts for around a quarter of the country's gross domestic product. The country maintains a Nordic social benefit model with universal health care, subsidized higher education, and a comprehensive social security system. From 2001 to 2006, and then again from 2009 through 2011, Norway has had the highest human development index ranking in the world. In 2011, Norway also ranked the highest on the Democracy Index.



More about Norway...





Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



The Kalmar Union (Danish, Norwegian and Swedish: Kalmarunionen) is a historiographical term meaning a series of personal unions (1397–1524) that united the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway (with Iceland, Greenland, Faroe Islands, Shetland and Orkney) and Sweden (including some of Finland) under a single monarch, though intermittently. The countries had not technically given up their sovereignty, nor their independence, but in practical terms, they were only autonomous, the common monarch holding the sovereignty and, particularly, leading foreign policy; diverging interests (especially the Swedish nobility's dissatisfaction over the dominant role played by Denmark and Holstein) gave rise to a conflict that would hamper the union in several intervals from the 1430s until the union's breakup in 1523 when Gustav Vasa became king of Sweden. The union was never formally dissolved - some argue that its conception actually was never ratified either. Norway and her overseas dependencies, however, continued to remain a part of the realm of Denmark-Norway under the Oldenburg dynasty for several centuries after the dissolution.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Matthew Prior



Vigeland Sculpture Park is a part of Frogner Park, located in Oslo, Norway, 3 km northwest of the city centre. The park covers 80 acres and features 212 bronze and granite sculptures created by Gustav Vigeland. Vigeland personally sculpted every figure out of clay and individual craftsmen were contracted to fabricate the pieces into what they are today.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In the news

Wikinews Norway portal


August 30: Lightning strikes dead more than 300 wild reindeer in Norway
March 10: Wheelchair curling enters third day at 2014 Winter Paralympics
March 10: Ukraine's Lyudmyla Pavlenko wins gold in 2014 Winter Paralympics
March 8: Norway beats Czech Republic in sledge hockey overtime win in first match at Winter Paralympics

2010 in Norway (2009)




edit  
In this month






Ole Borneman Bull (5 February 1810 – 17 August 1880) (pictured) was a Norwegian violinist, often called Norway's first international star.
Alexander Lange Kielland (18 February 1849 – 6 April 1906) was one of the most famous Norwegian authors of the 19th century.
Harald V (born 21 February 1937) is the King of Norway. He succeeded to the throne of Norway upon the death of his father Olav V on 17 January 1991.

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected biography



Gunnhildr konungamóðir (mother of kings) or Gunnhildr Özurardóttir (c. 900  –  c. 980) was the wife of Erik Bloodaxe (king of Norway 930–34, "king" of Orkney c. 937–54, and king of Jórvík 948–49 and 952–54). Gunnhild is a prominent figure in many Norse sagas, including Fagrskinna, Egil's Saga, Njal's Saga, and Heimskringla. Many of the details of her life are disputed, including her parentage. Gunnhild lived during a time of great change in Norway. Her father-in-law Harald Fairhair had recently united much of Norway under his rule. Shortly after his death, Gunnhild and her husband were overthrown and exiled. She spent much of the rest of her life in exile in Orkney, Jorvik and Denmark. A number of her many children with Erik became co-rulers of Norway in the late tenth century. What details of her life are known come largely from Icelandic sources; because the Icelanders were generally hostile to her and her husband, scholars regard some of the more negative episodes reported in them as suspect.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that Arne Kjelstrup from the Norwegian heavy water sabotage team also participated in the anti-demolition operation Sunshine (protected facility pictured)?
...that in 2001, when Nina Frisak became the first female leader of the Norwegian Office of the Prime Minister, she left the position of Supreme Court Justice?
...that while serving as State Conciliator of Norway for eleven years, Preben Munthe was also economics professor at the University of Oslo?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Norway


► Buildings and structures in Norway



► Economy of Norway



► Environment of Norway



► Geography of Norway



► Government of Norway



► Health in Norway



► History of Norway



► Norway-related lists



► Military of Norway



► Norwegian people



► Politics of Norway



► Science and technology in Norway



► Norwegian society



► Sport in Norway



► Tourist attractions in Norway



► Transport in Norway



► Images of Norway



► Norway stubs










edit  
WikiProjects



Parent projects

WikiProject Countries • WikiProject Europe


Main project

WikiProject Norway

Similar projects

WikiProject Denmark • WikiProject Finland • WikiProject Iceland • WikiProject Sweden • WikiProject Russia

What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected panorama












Credit: Lars Røed Hansen



Bodø is a city and municipality in the county of Nordland, Norway. Located just north of the Arctic Circle, Bodø is the largest city in Nordland, and the second largest in North Norway.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected quote







Yesterday, on the 17th of May, we Norwegians celebrated our constitution day to mark the signing of Norway's constitution in 1814. Maybe it is because we are a small country: In Norway this is an important day. All over Norway children have paraded in their best clothes to the music of thousands of marching bands, and countless speeches have been made to remind each others, as fellow Norwegians, that freedom should never be taken for granted.
— Andreas Heldal-Lund, Leipzig Human Rights Award acceptance speech (2003)







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured and Good content



Featured articles


 1952 Winter Olympics
 Alien vs. Predator (film)
 Amundsen's South Pole expedition
 S. A. Andrée's Arctic Balloon Expedition of 1897
 Anne of Denmark
 Battle of Svolder
 Black Friday (1945)
 Carsten Borchgrevink
 Harriet Bosse
 Don't Say You Love Me (M2M song)
 Farthest South
 Operation Goodwood (naval)
 Caesar Hull
 Killer whale
 Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark
 Operation Mascot
 Fridtjof Nansen
 Nansen's Fram expedition
 Norse-American medal
 Operation Paravane
 Vidkun Quisling
 Operation Tungsten


Featured lists


 1952 Winter Olympics medal table
 List of members of the Parliament of Norway, 2005–09
 List of Braathens destinations
 List of Oslo Metro lines
 List of Oslo Metro stations
 List of Oslo Tramway and Metro operators
 List of Rosenborg BK records and statistics
 List of Rosenborg BK seasons
 List of aircraft operated by Braathens
 List of aircraft operated by Scandinavian Airlines
 List of members of the Norwegian Nobel Committee
 List of protected areas of Svalbard
 Minister of Transport and Communications (Norway)
 National Tourist Routes
 List of Nobel Peace Prize laureates
 Rosenborg BK in European football
 Timeline of railway electrification in Norway
 Venues of the 1952 Winter Olympics
 Venues of the 1994 Winter Olympics


Good articles


 1994 Progress Party national convention
 2010 Nobel Peace Prize
 Åndalsnes Station
 Air Norway
 Aker Stadion
 Ålgård Line
 Alta Airport
 Amanda Award
 Johannes S. Andersen
 Annie (Norwegian singer)
 Anniemal
 Antestor
 Åråsen Stadion
 Arbeideren (Hamar)
 Architecture of Norway
 Ås Station
 Asker Line
 Aspmyra Stadion
 Atlantic Ocean Road
 Augvald
 Bærum Tunnel
 Balbergbakken
 Death of Kaja Ballo
 Båtsfjord Airport
 Berg (station)
 Bergen Air Transport
 Bergen Aviation
 Bergen Light Rail
 Bergen Line
 Berlevåg Airport
 The Big Room
 Birkebeineren Ski Stadium
 Bjaðmunjo Mýrjartaksdóttir
 Bjorli Station
 Stig Inge Bjørnebye
 Bjorøy Tunnel
 German cruiser Blücher
 Bømlafjord Tunnel
 Braathens Helikopter
 Braathens SAFE Flight 139
 Briskeby Arena
 Brønnøysund Airport, Brønnøy
 .bv
 Cargolink
 Carl Berners plass (station)
 Magnus Carlsen
 Color Air
 Dælenenga idrettspark
 The Danish Poet
 Eidsvoll Verk Station
 Ekeberg Line
 Elisenberg Station
 Leif Erikson
 Eystein I of Norway
 Fagernes Airport, Leirin
 Flåm Line
 Flekkefjord Line
 Flekkefjord Station
 Flytoget
 Erling Folkvord
 Follo Line
 Førde Airport, Bringeland
 Førde Airport, Øyrane
 Forskningsparken (station)
 Operation Freshman
 GMB Class 71
 Gardermoen Line
 Geilo Airport, Dagali
 German U-boat bases in occupied Norway
 Gevingåsen Tunnel
 Erik Gjems-Onstad
 Gjøvik Olympic Cavern Hall
 HMS Glatton (1914)
 HMS Gorgon (1914)
 Gorgon-class monitor
 Gullfisk
 Guttorm of Norway
 Haakon IV of Norway
 Håkons Hall
 Halden Prison
 Hallingskeid Station
 CC Amfi
 Carl Joachim Hambro (philologist)
 Johan Hambro
 Hammerfest Airport
 Hardanger Line
 Harald Hardrada
 Knut Arild Hareide
 Hasvik Airport
 Havørn Accident
 Hell–Sunnan Line
 Ivar Hippe
 History of Braathens (1994–2004)
 History of Braathens SAFE (1946–93)
 History of the Oslo Tramway and Metro
 Jon Hol
 Bernt Michael Holmboe
 Holstein (station)
 ISO 3166-2:SJ
 Ice block expedition of 1959
 Ice trade
 Indre Wijdefjorden National Park
 Innherredsferja
 Iore
 Kingdom of the Isles
 Jæren Commuter Rail
 Jan Mayensfield
 Jarlsberg Tunnel
 Kanthaugen Freestyle Arena
 Joshua King (footballer)
 Kirkenes Airport, Høybuktmoen
 Kirkenes–Bjørnevatn Line
 The Kiss (Munch painting)
 Broder Knudtzon
 Halvdan Koht
 SS Kommandøren
 Kongsfjord Telemetry Station
 Korketrekkeren
 Homansbyen Depot
 Kristins Hall
 Krohn Air
 Lakselv Airport, Banak
 Operation Leader
 Lerkendal Stadion
 Haakon Lie
 Lier Line
 Lillehammer Olympiapark
 Lillehammer Olympic Bobsleigh and Luge Track
 Lillesand–Flaksvand Line
 Lillestrøm Stadion
 Linx (railway company)
 Longyearbyen
 Ansgar Løvold
 Lysaker Station
 Lysgårdsbakken
 Harald Maddadsson
 Magnus II of Norway
 Magnus Barefoot
 Marine Harvest
 Olav Meisdalshagen
 Meråker Line
 HNoMS Mjølner (1868)
 Mortensrud (station)
 .no
 NSB Class 64
 NSB Class 66
 NSB Class 73
 NSB Class 92
 NSB Class 93
 NSB Di 3
 NSB Di 6
 NSB El 9
 NSB El 17
 NSB El 18
 NSB Gjøvikbanen
 Nationaltheatret Station
 Nels Nelsen
 Siri Nilsen
 Nobel Prize
 Nordberg (station)
 Nordhordland Bridge
 Norid
 Norsk Air
 Norsk Forurensningskontroll
 Norsk Spisevognselskap
 Norway Airlines
 Norwegian Forest cat
 Norwegian Police Service
 Norwegian Public Safety Radio
 Notodden Airport, Tuven
 Numedal Line
 Ny-Ålesund Airport, Hamnerabben
 Nydalen (station)
 O' Horten
 OS T1000
 OS T2000
 Martin Ødegaard
 Ofotbanen (company)
 Omen (Antestor album)
 Operation Clambake
 Operation Doomsday
 OS MX3000
 Oslo Airport, Fornebu
 Oslo Airport Station
 Oslo Commuter Rail
 Oslo Metro
 Oslo Metro rolling stock
 Oslo Tunnel
 Østhorn (station)
 Øvre Pasvik National Park
 Peter I Island
 Polar bear
 Politics of Svalbard
 Progress Party (Norway)
 Queen Maud Land
 Wilhelm Reich
 Ring Line (Oslo)
 Ringerike Line
 Rjukan Line
 Roa–Hønefoss Line
 Rodeløkka Line
 Rødkleiva
 Røa Line
 Romerike Tunnel
 Rørvik Airport, Ryum
 Røst Airport
 Röyksopp
 .sj
 SL79
 SL95
 Sandefjord Airport Station
 Scandinavian Airlines System Flight 347
 Shades of Purple
 Sigurd the Stout
 Sinsen (station)
 Skarnsund Bridge
 Skaugum Tunnel
 Sognsvann Line
 Sør Arena
 Sørkjosen Airport
 Sotra Bridge
 Stampesletta
 Stargate (production team)
 Station Group Banak
 Stavne–Leangen Line
 Ingeborg Steinholt
 Stord Bridge
 Storo (station)
 SS Suevic
 Superfinalen
 Svalbard Airport, Longyear
 Svalbard Rocket Range
 Svalbard Satellite Station
 Svalbard
 Svalbard and Jan Mayen
 Leif J. Sverdrup
 Take On Me
 Tanum Tunnel
 Teddy Air
 Telenor Arena
 Andreas Thorkildsen
 Timetoget
 Trans Polar
 Triangle Link
 Troll Airfield
 Troll Satellite Station
 Troll (research station)
 Tromsø Satellite Station
 Trøndelag Commuter Rail
 Trondheim Airport Station
 Trondheim Airport, Værnes
 Trondheim Central Station
 Leif Tronstad
 Tryvandshøiden (station)
 SK Ull
 Ullevaal Stadion
 Værøy Airport
 Venues of the 2016 Winter Youth Olympics
 Vestby Station
 Vestgrensa (station)
 Vikingskipet
 Vildanden (airline)
 Vnukovo Airlines Flight 2801
 Nils Vogt (journalist)
 Where You Go I Go Too
 Widerøe Flight 710
 Widerøe Flight 744
 Widerøe Flight 839


Featured topics


 1952 Winter Olympics
 Oslo Metro


Good topics


 Gorgon class monitors
 John Ericsson class monitors
 Norid
 Oslo Metro rolling stock
 Ring Line (Oslo)
 Troll (research station)


Featured pictures







File:Andrees Station3.jpg









File:BergenHordalandNorwayVagen.jpg









File:Fridtjof Nansen LOC 03377u-3.jpg









File:KnutSteen.1.jpg









File:Little Norway Guide2.jpg









File:Roald Amundsen2.jpg









File:Scandinavia.TMO2003050.jpg









File:Stavechurch-heddal.jpg









edit  
Main topics


Norway

Counties: Akershus • Aust-Agder • Buskerud • Finnmark • Hedmark • Hordaland • Møre og Romsdal • Nordland • Nord-Trøndelag • Oppland • Oslo • Østfold • Rogaland • Sogn og Fjordane • Sør-Trøndelag • Telemark • Troms • Vest-Agder • Vestfold
Culture: Bunad • Constitution Day • Cuisine • Farm culture • Jul • Literature • Music
History: Ancient Norwegian property laws • Nordic Stone Age • Nordic Bronze Age • Komsa • Fosna-Hensbacka culture • Funnelbeaker culture • Hamburg culture • Nøstvet and Lihult cultures • Maglemosian culture • Viking Age • Harald I of Norway • Olav IV of Norway • Haakon I of Norway • Olaf I of Norway • Olaf II of Norway • Battle of Stiklestad • Canute the Great • Magnus I of Norway • Harald III of Norway • Battle of Stamford Bridge • Magnus III of Norway • Sigurd I of Norway • Magnus V of Norway • Sverre of Norway • Haakon IV of Norway • Magnus VI of Norway • Eric II of Norway • Kalmar Union • Denmark–Norway • Union between Sweden and Norway • Dissolution of the union between Norway and Sweden in 1905 • Haakon VII of Norway • Olav V of Norway • Harald V of Norway • Occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany • Norwegian Campaign • Norwegian resistance movement • Legal purge in Norway after World War II • Foreign relations of Norway • Military of Norway • Norway and the European Union
Language: Å • Æ • Ø • Bokmål • Det Norske Akademi for Sprog og Litteratur • Differences between Norwegian Bokmål and Standard Danish • Høgnorsk • Nordic Council • Nordic Language Convention • Noregs Mållag • Norsk Ordbok • North Germanic languages • Norwegian alphabet • Norwegian dialects • Norwegian Language Council • Norwegian language conflict • Norwegian phonology • Nynorsk • Old Norse • Riksmålsforbundet • Russenorsk
Politics: Constitution • Counties (Fylker) • Elections • European Union relations • Foreign relations • Government • Monarchy • Municipalities (Kommuner) • Political parties • Prime Minister • Romantic nationalism • Sámi Parliament • Storting




edit  
Things you can do




Add {{Portal|Norway}} to existing See also sections of Norway-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Norway-related articles with the {{WikiProject Norway}} banner.
Rate the Unassessed Norway articles in the Norway WikiProject.
Requested articles: Requested Norway-related articles
Expand stubs: Building and structure stubs, Company stubs, Nordic football club stubs, Geography stubs, History stubs, Musical group stubs, People stubs, More...
Note: For additional tasks, see - Wikipedia talk:WikiProject Norway/to do





edit  
Related portals




Denmark
Faroe Islands
Iceland
Finland
Russia
Sweden
Europe
European Union
NATO

















edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Norway&oldid=644102567"					
Categories: Norway portalNorwayEuropean portalsPortals by countryHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiEspañolEuskaraFrançaisGalegoՀայերենItalianoҚазақшаLatinaNederlandsNorsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSuomi 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 13:59.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.684","walltime":"0.943","ppvisitednodes":{"value":5282,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":282500,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":118286,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  626.546      1 -total"," 47.21%  295.807      1 Portal:Norway/Content"," 43.75%  274.087      5 Template:Columns-list"," 39.56%  247.878    317 Template:Icon"," 22.30%  139.691      1 Portal:Norway/Intro"," 11.87%   74.343      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.81%   74.024      1 Template:Lang-no"," 11.62%   72.798      1 Template:Language_with_name"," 11.35%   71.123      1 Template:Lang"," 11.24%   70.440      2 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.256","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":6308888,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1220","timestamp":"20170209202526","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":64,"wgHostname":"mw1261"});});
