 







Portal:Oklahoma

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








edit  










Oklahoma i/ˌoʊkləˈhoʊmə/ (Cherokee: Asgaya gigageyi / ᎠᏍᎦᏯ ᎩᎦᎨᏱ;[1] or translated ᎣᎦᎳᎰᎹ (òɡàlàhoma), Pawnee: Uukuhuúwa, Cayuga: Gahnawiyoˀgeh) is a state located in the South Central United States. Oklahoma is the 20th most extensive and the 28th most populous of the 50 United States. The state's name is derived from the Choctaw words okla and humma, meaning "red people". It is also known informally by its nickname, The Sooner State, in reference to the non-Native settlers who staked their claims on the choicest pieces of land before the official opening date, and the Indian Appropriations Act of 1889, which opened the door for white settlement in America's Indian Territory. The name was settled upon statehood, Oklahoma Territory and Indian Territory were merged and Indian was dropped from the name. On November 16, 1907, Oklahoma became the 46th state to enter the union. Its residents are known as Oklahomans, or informally "Okies", and its capital and largest city is Oklahoma City.
A major producer of natural gas, oil, and agricultural products, Oklahoma relies on an economic base of aviation, energy, telecommunications, and biotechnology. In 2007, it had one of the fastest-growing economies in the United States, ranking among the top states in per capita income growth and gross domestic product growth. Oklahoma City and Tulsa serve as Oklahoma's primary economic anchors, with nearly two-thirds of Oklahomans living within their metropolitan statistical areas.
More about Oklahoma...



Show new selections



edit  
Selected article


Oklahoma! is the first musical play written by composer Richard Rodgers and lyricist/librettist Oscar Hammerstein II. A special Pulitzer Prize award was given to Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II for Oklahoma! in the category of "Special Awards And Citations - Letters" in 1944.
The original Broadway production opened on March 31, 1943. It was a box-office smash and ran for a then unprecedented 2,212 performances, later enjoying award-winning revivals, national tours and an Academy Award-winning 1955 film adaptation. Originally entitled Away We Go, the musical is based on Lynn Riggs's 1931 play, Green Grow the Lilacs. Set in Oklahoma Territory outside the town of Claremore in 1906, it tells the story of cowboy Curly McLain and his romance with farmer girl Laurey Williams. Their love is challenged by Laurey's threatening farmhand, Jud Fry, and much of the play follows the tension generated by this conflict. (Read more...)
More articles...



edit  
Spotlight city





Bartlesville is a city in Washington County, Oklahoma. The population was 34,748 at the 2000 census. Bartlesville is located forty-seven miles north of Tulsa and very close to Oklahoma's northern border with Kansas. It is the county seat of Washington County, and the city's west side lies partially in Osage County.
Bartlesville is notable as the longtime home of Phillips Petroleum Company, now merged with Conoco as ConocoPhillips. Frank Phillips, who has a principal street named after him (the hospital is named after his wife Jane), founded Phillips Petroleum in Bartlesville in 1905 when the area was still Indian Territory. Phillips has always been the largest employer. Chiefly white-collar workers are employed by ConocoPhillips in Bartlesville, as the industrial extraction and refining work is done elsewhere in the state and throughout the world.
The city has one daily newspaper and several radio stations. It is one of two places in Oklahoma where a Lenape tribe lives, the other being Anadarko. (Read more...)
More cities...



edit  
Selected picture



Credit: User:Okiefromokla
The Glass Mountains in Oklahoma. Taken from the top of a mesa at Glass Mountains State Park.
More pictures...



edit  
Did you know...




...that Tulsa is often considered the birthplace of U.S. Route 66?
...that Oklahoma has the longest drivable stretch of Route 66 in the nation?
...that in 1927, Oklahoma businessman Cyrus Avery, known the "Father of Route 66," proposed using an existing stretch of highway from Amarillo, Texas to Tulsa for the original portion of Highway 66?
...that Oklahoman Cyrus Avery spearheaded the creation of the U.S. Highway 66 Association, the organization that oversaw the planning and creation of Route 66, and he placed the organization's headquarters in Tulsa?





edit  
Featured content


 Featured articles: Black Seminoles • Chickasaw Turnpike • Jim Thorpe • Oklahoma • Tulsa, Oklahoma • Woody Guthrie • Oklahoma City bombing • Brad Pitt
Featured lists: Oklahoma birds • Tallest buildings in Tulsa • List of tallest buildings in Oklahoma City • List of birds of Oklahoma • List of Oklahoma Sooners football seasons • List of Oklahoma Sooners head football coaches • List of Oklahoma Sooners in the NFL Draft




edit  
State facts






Oklahoma State Capitol building



Nickname: The Sooner State
Capital and largest city: Oklahoma City
Governor: Mary Fallin (R)
Total area: 181,196 square kilometers (69,960 square miles)
Population (2010 census): 3,751,351
Date admitted to the Union: November 16, 1907
Senators: James M. Inhofe (R), James Lankford (R)
Representatives: Jim Bridenstine (R), Markwayne Mullin (R), Frank D. Lucas (R), Tom Cole (R), Steve Russell (R)

State symbols




The Scissortail Flycatcher, Oklahoma's state bird



Mammal: Bison
Bird: Scissor-tailed flycatcher
Fish: White bass
Floral emblem: Mistletoe
Flower: Oklahoma Rose
Grass: Indian grass
Insect: Honeybee
Tree: Redbud
Fossil: Allosaurid dinosaur
Rock: Rose Rock
Soil: Port Silt Loam
Song: Oklahoma!
Beverage: Milk







edit  
Selected biography





Samuel Jacob "Sam" Bradford, born November 8, 1987 in Oklahoma City, is an American football quarterback for the St. Louis Rams of the National Football League. He was the first overall pick in the 2010 NFL Draft, and played college football at the University of Oklahoma. In 2008, as a redshirt sophomore, Bradford became the second sophomore to win a Heisman Trophy. Bradford also holds the NCAA record for most touchdown passes by a freshman quarterback, with 36.
In his first season as an NFL quarterback he set the record for most completions by a rookie in NFL history, which helped earn him the NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year award. (Read more...)
More biographies...



edit  
Oklahoma news


2016

May

Lawmakers approve a bill that would make performing abortions a felony, and revoke the medical license of most assisting physicians, the first such proposed law in the US [1]







edit  
Categories


Select [+] to view subcategories



▼ Oklahoma


► Oklahoma-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Oklahoma



► Communications in Oklahoma



► Oklahoma culture



► Demographics of Oklahoma



► Economy of Oklahoma



► Education in Oklahoma



► Environment of Oklahoma



► Geography of Oklahoma



► Government of Oklahoma



► Health in Oklahoma



► History of Oklahoma



► Landmarks in Oklahoma



► Oklahoma law



► Military in Oklahoma



► Native American tribes in Oklahoma



► People from Oklahoma



► Politics of Oklahoma



► Science and technology in Oklahoma



► Oklahoma society



► Sports in Oklahoma



► Tourist attractions in Oklahoma



► Transportation in Oklahoma



► Wikipedia books on Oklahoma



► Oklahoma stubs










edit  
Wikiprojects


















WikiProject Oklahoma
Oklahoma State Highways
Missing articles on Oklahoma newspapers
Taskforce Tulsa






edit  
Related portals









United States
Texas 
New Mexico 







Colorado 
Louisiana 
Kansas 






edit  
Things you can do









WikiProject Oklahoma
Open tasks
(watch • edit • discuss)





Current collaborations: University of Oklahoma and Oklahoma State University - Stillwater
To Improve to Featured standard: Oklahoma City, University of Oklahoma, Will Rogers
To Expand: Deep Deuce, Mick Cornett
Lists to complete: List of Oklahoma rivers
To Destub: See Category:Oklahoma stubs
Wanted Pictures/Graphics: See Category:Wikipedia requested photographs in Oklahoma











edit  
Oklahoma topics








v
t
e


 State of Oklahoma







Oklahoma City (capital)






Topics



History
Government
Governor (List)
Symbols
People
Geography
Earthquakes
Sports
Tourist attractions








Society



Culture
Crime
Demographics
Economy
Education
Politics








Regions



Arklatex
Central
Cherokee Outlet
Cross Timbers
Four State Area
Flint Hills
Green Country
Kiamichi Country
Little Dixie
Northwestern
Oklahoma City Metro
Ouachita Mountains
The Ozarks
Panhandle
South Central
Southwestern
Texoma
Tulsa Metro
Western








Largest cities



Ardmore
Bartlesville
Bixby
Broken Arrow
Del City
Duncan
Edmond
Enid
Lawton
Midwest City
Muskogee
Moore
Norman
Oklahoma City
Owasso
Ponca City
Shawnee
Stillwater
Tulsa
Yukon








Counties



Adair
Alfalfa
Atoka
Beaver
Beckham
Blaine
Bryan
Caddo
Canadian
Carter
Cherokee
Choctaw
Cimarron
Cleveland
Coal
Comanche
Cotton
Craig
Creek
Custer
Delaware
Dewey
Ellis
Garfield
Garvin
Grady
Grant
Greer
Harmon
Harper
Haskell
Hughes
Jackson
Jefferson
Johnston
Kay
Kingfisher
Kiowa
Latimer
Le Flore
Lincoln
Logan
Love
Major
Marshall
Mayes
McClain
McCurtain
McIntosh
Murray
Muskogee
Noble
Nowata
Okfuskee
Oklahoma
Okmulgee
Osage
Ottawa
Pawnee
Payne
Pittsburg
Pontotoc
Pottawatomie
Pushmataha
Roger Mills
Rogers
Seminole
Sequoyah
Stephens
Texas
Tillman
Tulsa
Wagoner
Washington
Washita
Woods
Woodward










edit  
Associated Wikimedia




What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge page cache


Oklahoma on Wikinews
Oklahoma on Wikiquote
Oklahoma on Wikibooks
Oklahoma on Wikisource
Oklahoma on Wiktionary
Oklahoma on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images
































^ http://www.omniglot.com/writing/cherokee.htm




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Oklahoma&oldid=719603289"					
Categories: United States portals by state or territoryOklahomaHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


EspañolFrançais 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 10 May 2016, at 18:02.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.204","walltime":"0.337","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1908,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":108842,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":8152,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  204.073      1 -total"," 32.55%   66.428      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 14.38%   29.339      1 Portal:Oklahoma/Intro"," 12.74%   26.007      1 Template:IPAc-en"," 12.39%   25.283      1 Portal:Oklahoma/Oklahoma_topics"," 11.90%   24.281      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.52%   23.516      1 Template:Oklahoma"," 10.47%   21.360      1 Template:Top_icon"," 10.34%   21.093      1 Template:US_state_navigation_box","  8.55%   17.454      1 Template:Navbox"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.048","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1676301,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1186","timestamp":"20170209165307","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":57,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
