 







Portal:Oregon

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Oregon Portal



Raised-relief map of Oregon



Oregon is a state in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It borders the Pacific Ocean on the west, Washington on the north, Idaho on the east, and California and Nevada on the south. The Columbia and Snake Rivers form, respectively, much of its northern and eastern borders. Between two north-south mountain ranges in western Oregon—the Oregon Coast Range and the Cascade Mountain Range—lies the Willamette Valley, the most densely populated and agriculturally productive region of the state.
Oregon has one of the most diverse landscapes of any state in the U.S. It is well known for its tall, dense forests; its accessible and scenic Pacific coastline; and its rugged, glaciated Cascade volcanoes. Other areas include semiarid scrublands, prairies, and deserts that cover approximately half the state in eastern and north-central Oregon.
Oregon's population in 2010 was about 3.8 million, a 12% increase over 2000. Oregon's population is largely concentrated in the Willamette Valley, which stretches from Eugene through Salem and Corvallis to Portland, Oregon's largest city.
The origin of the name Oregon is unknown. One account, advanced by George R. Stewart in a 1944 article in American Speech, was endorsed as the "most plausible explanation" in the book Oregon Geographic Names. According to Stewart, the name came from an engraver's error in a French map published in the early 1700s, on which the Ouisiconsink (Wisconsin) River was spelled "Ouaricon-sint", broken on two lines with the -sint below, so that there appeared to be a river flowing to the west named "Ouaricon".


More about Oregon...








View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Finetooth



The former Gold Ray Dam on the Rogue River upstream of Gold Hill with a fish ladder on the far bank. The dam, which made fish passage difficult, was removed in 2010. The concrete structure was about 35 feet (11 m) high.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected biography



Louise Bryant (December 5, 1885 – January 6, 1936) was an American journalist known for her sympathetic coverage of Russia and the Bolsheviks during the Russian Revolution. Bryant, a feminist married in 1916 to the more famous writer John Reed, wrote about leading Russian women such as Katherine Breshkovsky and Maria Spiridonova as well as men including Alexander Kerensky, Vladimir Lenin, and Leon Trotsky. Her news stories, distributed by Hearst during and after her trips to Petrograd and Moscow, appeared in newspapers across the U.S. and Canada in the years immediately following World War I. A collection of articles from her first trip was published in book form as Six Red Months in Russia in 1918. In 1919, she defended the revolution in testimony before the Overman Committee, a Senate subcommittee established to investigate Bolshevik influence in the United States. Later that year, she undertook a nationwide speaking tour to encourage public support of the Bolsheviks and to discourage armed U.S. intervention in Russia. Bryant grew up in rural Nevada and attended the University of Nevada in Reno and the University of Oregon, graduating with a degree in history in 1909. Pursuing a career in journalism, she became society editor of the Portland, Oregon, Spectator and freelanced for The Oregonian. During her years in Portland (1909–15), she became active in the women's suffrage movement. Leaving her first husband in 1915 to follow Reed to Greenwich Village, she formed friendships with leading feminists of the day, some of whom she met through Reed's associates at publications such as The Masses, or at meetings of a women's group, Heterodoxy, or through work with the Provincetown Players. During a National Woman's Party suffrage rally in Washington, D.C., in 1919, she was arrested and spent three days in jail. Like Reed, she had lovers outside of marriage; during her Greenwich Village years (1916–20) these included playwright Eugene O'Neill and painter Andrew Dasburg. Suffering from a rare and painful disorder, Bryant wrote and published little in her last 10 years and drank heavily. Bullitt, winning sole custody of Anne, divorced her in 1930. Bryant died in Paris in 1936 and was buried in Versailles. A group from Portland visited her neglected grave in 1998 and worked to restore it.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that the Oregon Civic Justice Center (pictured) at the Willamette Law School was dedicated exactly 96 years after the building was first opened as a Carnegie library?
... that Oregon State Senator Laurie Monnes Anderson is a first cousin of The Simpsons creator Matt Groening?
... that Legacy Meridian Park Hospital in Tualatin, Oregon, was built when the city had only 750 residents?
... that someone was once stabbed at the Sunset Esplanade in Hillsboro, Oregon, for complimenting an Oakland Raiders hat?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News


Wikinews Oregon portal


June 23: On the campaign trail in the USA, May 2016
October 4: Several dead in Oregon college shootings
April 29: US Soccer: Seattle Sounders defeat Portland Timbers
May 20: Pennsylvania court strikes down same-sex marriage ban as unconstitutional







edit  
In this month



February 4, 1999, near Coos Bay the New Carissa ran aground during a storm on the Pacific Ocean.
February 5, 1846, the first edition of the Oregon Spectator is published, becoming the first American newspaper to be published west of the Rocky Mountains.
February 8, 1851, the city of Portland is incorporated.
February 14, 1859, Oregon becomes the 33rd state of the Union.
February 14, 1917, the Interstate Bridge is opened over the Columbia River, linking Portland to Vancouver, Washington.
February 14, 1994, architect Pietro Belluschi dies.
February 25, 1880, the Chemawa Indian School opened in Forest Grove.
February 27, 1993, the Spruce Goose arrives in McMinnville, where it will be housed in a museum.

<< Previous month Next month >>
More anniversaries...








edit  
Selected article



Rail transportation is an important element of the transportation network in the state of Oregon. Rail has existed in the state in some form since 1855, and the state was a pioneer in development of electric railway systems. While the automobile has displaced many uses of rail in the state (as elsewhere), rail remains a key means of moving passengers and freight, both within the state and to points beyond its borders. As of 2004, the state of Oregon has over 2,400 route-miles (3,900 km) of track, and 170 miles (274 km) of railroad right-of-way after peaking in the 1930s at about 4,350 miles (7,001 km) of track. Oregon is served by two Class 1 railroads (BNSF Railway & Union Pacific Railroad), which account for over 1100 miles (1,770 km) of trackage, and over twenty Class 2 and Class 3 operators. Three Amtrak routes serve the state, primarily through the Willamette Valley and south-central Oregon. Rail is a key element of the mass transit system in the city of Portland and surrounding communities. These include MAX Light Rail, the Westside Express Service commuter rail, and the Portland Streetcar. There are also numerous tourist railways operated in the state.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
State facts



Nickname: The Beaver State
Capital city: Salem
Largest city: Portland
Governor: Kate Brown (D)
Total area: 255,026 km²
Population (2010 census): 3,831,074
Date admitted to the Union: February 14, 1859
Form of Government: Federalist
Senators: Ron Wyden (D), Jeff Merkley (D)
Representatives: Suzanne Bonamici (D), Greg Walden (R), Earl Blumenauer (D), Peter DeFazio (D), Kurt Schrader (D)

State symbols:











Animal: American beaver
Bird: Western meadowlark
Fish: Chinook salmon
Flower: Oregon grape
Insect: Oregon swallowtail
Tree: Douglas fir
Fossil: Metasequoia
Gemstone: Oregon sunstone
Motto: Alis volat propriis
Rock: Thunderegg
Song: "Oregon, My Oregon"







edit  
WikiProjects




Oregon

Oregon State Highways


United States

U.S. states
United States regions




What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Categories






▼ Oregon


► Oregon-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Oregon



► Communications in Oregon



► Oregon culture



► Economy of Oregon



► Education in Oregon



► Environment of Oregon



► Geography of Oregon



► Government of Oregon



► Health in Oregon



► History of Oregon



► Landmarks in Oregon



► Oregon law



► Military in Oregon



► Native American tribes in Oregon



► People from Oregon



► Politics of Oregon



► Science and technology in Oregon



► Oregon society



► Sports in Oregon



► Tourist attractions in Oregon



► Transportation in Oregon



► Images of Oregon



► Oregon stubs














edit  
Selected panorama








Credit: Adumbvoget



The Snake River is a major tributary of the Columbia River in the U.S. states of Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. The river's length is 1,040 miles (1,674 km), its watershed drains 108,000 square miles (280,000 km2), and the average discharge at its mouth is 56,900 cubic feet per second (1,610 m³/s). The river flows from its source in Yellowstone National Park through a series of mountain ranges, canyons, and plains.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected quote







Madam Speaker, although much work is left to be done as our communities start to recover from the severe storms that ravaged Oregon and Washington on December 2 and 3, 2007, we can reflect and be grateful for the hard work of the thousands of our fellow Pacific Northwesterners who helped neighbors, families, and complete strangers during the storms and their aftermath. ... We were all shocked by the devastating impact that these storms wreaked on Oregon. More than 10 inches of rain fell in a 24-hour period with wind gusts ranging from 60 to 129 miles an hour. ... Thankfully, first responders and ordinary citizens moved quickly to help their fellow Oregonians cope with the storm. ... Selfless Oregonians from across the State came to help in what turned out to be a spectacular response effort. It has been incredible to see the extraordinary efforts of so many.
— Darlene Hooley







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content




See also: Good articles relating to Oregon

Featured articles:


1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens
1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack
Balch Creek
Big Butte Creek
Frank Black
Bull Run River
Camas pocket gopher
Chetco River
Columbia River
Columbia Slough
D. B. Cooper
Cutthroat trout
Homer Davenport
Everything Tastes Better with Bacon
Fanno Creek
Forest Park
Ulysses S. Grant
Hanford Site
Hillsboro, Oregon
Johnson Creek
Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar
Little Butte Creek
Ezra Meeker
Music for a Time of War
New Carissa
Oregon State Capitol
Oregon Trail Memorial half dollar
Rainbow trout
Rogue River
Roxy Ann Peak
Elliott Smith
Trout Creek Mountains
Tryon Creek
Upper and Lower Table Rock
Voluntary Human Extinction Movement
Weather Machine
Willamette River


Featured lists:


List of areas in the National Park System of the United States
List of Portland Trail Blazers head coaches
List of tallest buildings in Portland, Oregon
List of U.S. states by date of statehood
List of U.S. states by elevation
List of longest streams of Oregon
List of songs recorded by Pink Martini
List of Oregon state symbols
Oregon Symphony discography


Featured pictures:







Mirror Lake with Mt. Hood in the background, Courtesy of Oregon's Mt. Hood Territory









Wreck of the Peter Iredale, by Robert Bradshaw









A Fred Meyer grocery store, by lyzadanger, edited by Diliff









Portland, Oregon from the east, by Eric Baetscher









The Willamette River as it passes through downtown Portland, Oregon, by Cacophony









A stitched panorama of downtown Portland, OR at night, by Fcb981









The Oregon Convention Center at dusk, by Fcb981









Gold Ray Dam on the Rogue River, by Finetooth









Painted Hills panorama by Finetooth









Coat of arms for the State of Oregon by Henry Mitchell










edit  
Main topics




Attractions:


Crater Lake National Park
John Day Fossil Beds National Monument
Lewis and Clark National and State Historical Parks
Oregon Caves National Monument
Portland Rose Festival


Metro Areas:


Bend-Redmond
Eugene-Springfield
Medford-Ashland
Portland
Salem-Keizer


Culture:


Music
Oregon Shakespeare Festival
Religion


Education:


Higher Education


Geography:


Regions
The Cascades
Central Oregon
Columbia Gorge
Columbia Plateau
Columbia River
Eastern Oregon
Harney Basin
Inland Empire
Mount Hood Corridor
Oregon Coast
Palouse
Portland Metro
Rogue Valley
Southern Oregon
Treasure Valley
Tualatin Valley
Western Oregon
Willamette Valley


Government:


Oregon Constitution
Oregon Legislative Assembly
Oregon Supreme Court
Oregon System





History:


Oregon Country
Oregon Treaty
Oregon missionaries
Executive Committee
Oregon Trail
Oregon boundary dispute
Pacific Fur Company
Provisional Government
Hudson's Bay Company
Treaty of 1818
Russo-American Treaty
Champoeg Meetings
Whitman massacre
Donation Land Claim Act
Capital punishment in Oregon


People:


Neil Goldschmidt
Tom McCall
John McLoughlin


Sports:


Portland Trail Blazers
University of Oregon
Oregon State University
Portland State University
University of Portland
Portland Timbers


Transportation:


Barlow Road
Historic Columbia River Highway
River Ferries
Interstate 5
Interstate 84
Light rail
Oregon Route 99
Pacific Crest Trail
Steamboats of the Columbia River
Steamboats of the Willamette River
Steamboats of the Oregon Coast
U.S. Route 26
U.S. Route 30
U.S. Route 97
U.S. Route 101
U.S. Route 395











edit  
Lists


Oregon-related lists



Culture

Art institutions in Portland, Oregon

Education

Colleges and universities
High schools
School districts

Economy

Hospitals
Hydroelectric dams
Wineries and vineyards

Geography

Cities and unincorporated communities
Counties
Indian reservations
Lighthouses
County seats

Government

Governors
Ballot measures
Government Agencies
Political parties
United States Representatives
United States Senators



History

County name etymologies
Royal Navy ships in the Pacific Northwest
Timeline of Portland, Oregon history

Law

Law enforcement agencies
Judges
State prisons

Media

Newspapers
Radio stations
Television stations

Natural history

Plants
Mountain ranges
State forests
Rivers




People

Governors of Oregon
Mayors of Portland, Oregon
People from Oregon

Protected areas

State parks
Registered Historic Places

Transportation

Airports
Bridges on the Oregon Coast
Covered bridges
Crossings of the Columbia River
Crossings of the Molalla River
Crossings of the Snake River
Crossings of the Willamette River
Exits on Interstate 5
Railroads
Private-use airports











edit  
Things you can do



This month's Collaboration of the Month projects: Malcolm A. Moody & List of parks in Portland, Oregon
Also, see this list of common redlinks, list of articles with cleanup tags, and list of articles needing immediate attention



Current Featured Article (or other Featured content) candidates:
Undergoing Peer review:
To Improve to Featured Standard: Oregon
Current Good Article Nominees:
To Improve and Nominate at WP:GOOD:
To Expand: History of Oregon, Government of Oregon
To Clean Up: WikiProject Oregon Cleanup listing
Review Recent Changes: See WikiProject Oregon recent changes list
To Merge: See Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Oregon#Merge proposals
To Split:
To Destub: Politics of Oregon
To Deorphan:
To Create: Geography of Oregon (currently a redir), High priority list, Elizabeth Leach Gallery, Japanese American Historical Plaza, Portland Rescue Mission, John Kitzhaber resignation, Women's Protective Division (formerly Women's Auxiliary to the Police Department for the Protection of Girls)
To Create from Redirects: See Category:Redirect-Class Oregon articles (use caution)
To De-Redlink:
Lists to De-Redlink:
Lists to Complete:
Wanted Pics/Graphics: Requested photos
Wanted New Pics:







edit  
Related portals





United States






Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Delaware

Florida

Georgia





Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maryland





Minnesota

Nebraska

New Jersey

New Mexico

North Carolina

Oklahoma

Puerto Rico





South Carolina

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

Wisconsin











edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species














What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache

Coordinates: 44°00′N 120°30′W﻿ / ﻿44°N 120.5°W﻿ / 44; -120.5






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Oregon&oldid=730632183"					
Categories: Oregon portalUnited States portals by state or territoryOregonWikiProject OregonHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


EspañolFrançaisTiếng Việt 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 20 July 2016, at 08:35.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.268","walltime":"0.427","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2461,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":126692,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":17123,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  244.204      1 -total"," 41.77%  102.009      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 16.85%   41.150      4 Template:Convert"," 16.39%   40.023      1 Portal:Oregon/Selected_picture/Layout"," 14.64%   35.750      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 13.44%   32.821      1 Template:Top_icon"," 11.23%   27.429      1 Template:Category_handler"," 10.70%   26.140      1 Portal:Oregon/Featured_content","  6.30%   15.380     18 Template:Box-header","  5.68%   13.860      1 Portal:Oregon/Intro"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.080","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3123924,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1289","timestamp":"20170212050704","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":57,"wgHostname":"mw1249"});});
