 







Portal:Peru

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
THE PERU PORTAL






















Shortcuts:

P:PERU
P:PE


Peru is a country in western South America. It is bordered on the north by Ecuador and Colombia, on the east by Brazil, on the southeast by Bolivia, on the south by Chile, and on the west by the Pacific Ocean. Peruvian territory was home to the Norte Chico civilization, one of the oldest in the world, and to the Inca Empire, the largest state in Pre-Columbian America. The Spanish Empire conquered the country in the 16th century and established a Viceroyalty, which included most of its South American colonies. After achieving independence in 1821, Peru has undergone periods of political unrest and fiscal crisis as well as periods of stability and economic upswing. Peru is a presidential representative democratic republic divided into 25 regions. Its geography varies from the arid plains of the Pacific coast to the peaks of the Andes mountains and the tropical forests of the Amazon basin. It is a developing country with a medium Human Development Index score and a poverty level around 40%. Its main economic activities include agriculture, fishing, mining, and manufacturing of products such as textiles. The Peruvian population, estimated at 28 million, is multiethnic, including Amerindians, Europeans, Africans and Asians. The main spoken language is Spanish, although a significant number of Peruvians speak Quechua or other native languages.
 More about Peru ...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article


LANSA Flight 502 was a Lockheed Electra L-188A operated by Lineas Aéreas Nacionales Sociedad Anónima (LANSA) which crashed shortly after takeoff on August 9, 1970, after losing one of its engines. The aircraft, registered OB-R-939, was bound from Cusco to Lima in Peru, carrying 8 crew and 92 passengers. All but one of the occupants died from injuries sustained from impact forces and post crash fire. Two people on the ground were also killed. There were 46 American high school exchange students on board, all of whom perished. A Peruvian government investigations concluded that the accident was caused by improper execution of engine-out procedures by the flight crew, aggravated by lack of maintenance and overloading. LANSA was fined and its operations suspended for 90 days. At the time, the crash was the worst ever in Peruvian history. (more...)
More selected articles...



edit  
Selected picture





Photo credit: Ericbronder
The Peruvian Legislative Palace (Spanish: Palacio Legislativo) houses the unicameral Congress of Peru (Spanish: Congreso de la República) with its 120 Members of Congress (Spanish: Congresistas). The current building was finished in 1938, during the presidency of Óscar R. Benavides. It is located on Bolívar Square, named in honor of the South American independence leader Simon Bolívar whose statue is in front of the building. (more...)
More selected pictures...



edit  
Selected battle





The Battle of (or Massacre at) Cajamarca (November 16, 1532) was a surprise attack on the Inca royal entourage orchestrated by Francisco Pizarro. Sprung in the evening in the great plaza of Cajamarca, the ambush claimed the lives of thousands of Incas and achieved the goal of capturing Emperor Atahualpa. The confrontation at Cajamarca was the culmination of a months-long struggle involving espionage, subterfuge, and diplomacy between Pizarro and the Inca via their respective envoys. Atahualpa had received the invaders from a position of immense strength. Encamped along the heights of Cajamarca with legions of battle-tested troops fresh from their victories in the civil war against his half-brother Huáscar, the Inca felt they had little to fear from Pizarro's tiny army, however exotic its dress and weaponry. In a calculated show of goodwill, Atahualpa had lured the adventurers deep into the heart of his mountain empire where any potential threat could be met with a show of force. (more...)
More selected battles...



edit  
In this month



February 12, 1903 - Historian Jorge Basadre author of Historia de la República (History of the Republic) is born.


February 12, 1939 - At the South American Championship the national football team wins its first Copa América.


February 14, 2009 - The Milk of Sorrow, a film by Claudia Llosa wins a Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival.


February 25, 1825 - The Coat of arms is adopted as national symbolic emblem of Peru.


February 28, 1995 - End of the Cenepa War, the third war in the territorial dispute between Peru and Ecuador in the 20th century.

More anniversaries...






edit  
Peru news



August 2, 2011 Peru government to ration energy in north. Reuters
August 1, 2011 Peru to beef up state energy companies -minister. Reuters
July 28, 2011 Ollanta Humala is sworn in as new Peru president. BBC
July 28, 2011 Pisco sours and ceviche for Peruvian Independence Day. CNN
July 26, 2011 Peru renews $5 bln shelf registration for new govt. Reuters




Wikinews Peru portal



Archive








edit  
Did you know...






...that Inca architecture (wall pictured) is widely known for its fine masonry, which features precisely cut and shaped stones?
...that after its defeat in the War of the Pacific the Peruvian Army was rebuilt under the guidance of a French Military Mission?
...that the nuevo sol, the currency of Peru, was introduced in July 1991 at a rate of one per one million intis?
...that in 1996 the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement stormed the residence of the Japanese ambassador in Lima, starting a hostage crisis?
...that UBIGEO is a coding system used by the Peruvian National Statistics Institute to identify national administrative subdivisions?




Recent additions...



More...







edit  
Categories


Peru
Culture • Architecture • Art • Cinema • Literature • Music • Cuisine • Dances • Media • National symbols • Sport
Economy • Agriculture • Energy • Mining • Tourism • Companies • Currencies • Trade unions
Geography • Geology • Landforms • Natural disasters • Populated places • Protected areas • Subdivisions
Government • Foreign relations • Political office-holders
History • Andean • Inca • Colonial • Military • Disasters • Elections • Massacres • Historians • Revolutionaries
Politics • Elections • Political parties • Politicians
Society • Crime • Demographics • Ethnic groups • Languages • Religion




edit  
Things you can do



 Assess and prioritise articles (log)
 Check for copyvios at Special:Contributions/Priscilla D, tag as {{Db-copyvio}} where appropriate
 Create:
Expand: new articles; top importance articles
 FAC / FLC: Peru national football team
 GAN:
 Merge requests: Amazonas before the Inca Empire, Chachapoyas culture
 Review: Shining Path, Universitario de Deportes
 Translate: National University of San Marcos
 Work on Lima, the current article improvement drive
 Wikify: articles needing attention







edit  
Basic facts & figures






National Symbol


Capital


Currency


President


Time zone


National Anthem


Language


Population census






























Symbols of Peru


City of Lima


Nuevo Sol


Pedro Pablo Kuczynski (Elect)


Peru Time


Somos libres


Spanish


28,220,764










edit  
Peru Topics





History: Ancient civilizations • Inca Empire • Spanish conquest • Viceroyalty • War of independence • War of the Pacific • Demographic • Economic • More...




Politics: Constitution • Law • Human rights • Foreign relations • Military • Electoral system • Political parties • More...




Geography: Regions • Cities • Lima • Earthquakes • Mountains • Rivers • Flora • National parks • More...




Economy: Currency • Central Bank • Stock Exchange • Communications • Transport • Tourism • Companies • Electricity • Water supply and sanitation • More...




Culture: Architecture • Art • Cinema • Dances • Cuisine • Education • Languages • Literature • Media • Music • Public holidays • Religion • Sport • More...




Other: Chifa • Guinea pig • Inca Kola • Llama • Machu Picchu • People • More...



More...





edit  
WikiProjects











WikiProject Peru















South America


Latin America


Countries










edit  
Related portals













Latin America 

Argentina

Brazil


 
 
 
 









Chile

Colombia

Ecuador











edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species











What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Peru&oldid=649229529"					
Categories: Peru portalSouth American portalsLatin American portalsPeruPortals by countryHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةDeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoМакедонскиNāhuatlPortuguêsRuna SimiРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:07.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.200","walltime":"0.396","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1938,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":80614,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3006,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":14,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  244.668      1 -total"," 52.43%  128.283      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 14.13%   34.560      3 Template:Lang-es"," 13.55%   33.157      3 Template:Language_with_name"," 12.82%   31.368      3 Template:Lang"," 12.73%   31.151      4 Template:Category_handler","  8.37%   20.483      1 Portal:Peru/Intro","  7.15%   17.503      1 Template:Shortcut","  6.11%   14.949      1 Template:Featured_portal","  4.76%   11.644     10 Portal:Peru/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.041","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1540943,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1256","timestamp":"20170206165523","ttl":86400,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1237"});});
