 







Portal:Poland

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





edit  
Welcome to the Poland Portal
Witaj w Portalu o Polsce




Poland is a country in Central Europe, bordered by Germany to the west; the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south; Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania to the east; and the Baltic Sea and Russia's Kaliningrad Oblast to the north. It is an ancient nation whose history as a state began near the middle of the 10th century. Its golden age occurred in the 16th century when it united with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania to form the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth. During the following century, the strengthening of the gentry and internal disorders weakened the nation. In a series of agreements in the late 18th century, Russia, Prussia and Austria partitioned Poland amongst themselves. It regained independence as the Second Polish Republic in the aftermath of World War I only to lose it again when it was occupied by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union in World War II. The nation lost over six million citizens in the war, following which it emerged as the communist People's Republic of Poland under strong Soviet influence within the Eastern Bloc. A westward border shift followed by forced population transfers after the war turned a once multiethnic country into a mostly homogeneous nation state. Labor turmoil in 1980 led to the formation of the independent trade union called Solidarity (Solidarność) that over time became a political force which by 1990 had swept parliamentary elections and the presidency. A shock therapy program during the early 1990s enabled the country to transform its economy into one of the most robust in Central Europe. With its transformation to a democratic, market-oriented country completed, Poland is an increasingly active member of NATO and the European Union.



Show new selections (purge cache)


edit  
From Polish history






The Stone Age in what is now Poland lasted about 500,000 years and involved three different human species: Homo erectus, Homo neanderthalensis and Homo sapiens. Stone Age cultures ranged from early human groups with primitive tools to advanced agricultural societies, which used sophisticated stone tools, built fortified settlements and developed copper metallurgy. As elsewhere in Europe, the Stone Age human cultures went through the stages known as the Paleolithic, Mesolithic and Neolithic, each bringing new refinements of the stone tool making techniques. The Paleolithic human activities were intermittent because of the recurring periods of glaciation. A general climate warming and the resulting increase in ecologic diversity was characteristic of the Mesolithic (9,000-8,000 BCE). The Neolithic brought the first settled agricultural communities whose founders migrated from the Danube River area starting ca. 5,500 BCE. Later the native post-Mesolithic populations also adopted and further developed the agricultural way of life (4,400–2,000 BCE).


More selected articles...
Read more...




edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Willem Hondius
Four panoramas, extracted from a series of hand-coloured copperplate maps of the town and salt mine of Wieliczka, depict the everyday activities at the Wieliczka Salt Mine in the 17th century: miners carving away lumps of rock salt, horse mills powering water pumps and lifts, brine boiling on the surface, men praying in front of an underground altar sculpted in rock salt. The mine, in continuous operation since the 13th century, is a World Heritage Site and a major tourist attraction.

More selected pictures... Read more...



edit  
Did you know


From Wikipedia's new or recently improved articles about Poland:




... that, in order to disguise the V-2 missile launch site in Blizna (pictured), in what is now southeastern Poland, the Nazi Germans created a mock village with plywood cottages and barns, as well as plaster people and animals?
... that Polish Jewish writer Rokhl Auerbakh worked overtly as the director of a soup kitchen and covertly as a member of a secret group that chronicled daily life in the Warsaw Ghetto?
... that Emany Mata Likambe, Zaire's former ambassador to Poland, was discovered homeless and living in the streets of Warsaw in 1994, after his government had failed to pay him for over two years?
... that it was not illegal to possess or use cannabis in Poland until 1997?


Archive – Start a new article




edit  
You can help!






WikiProject Poland
New Poland-related articles
Wikipedia:WikiProject Poland/Popular pages




To do list
To translate from Polish
Image requests













edit  
Selected biography




Paweł Jasienica, born Leon Lech Beynar (1909–1970), was a Polish historian, journalist and soldier. During World War II, Beynar fought in the Polish Army, and later in the Home Army resistance. Near the end of the war, he was also working with the anti-Soviet resistance, which later led to him taking up a new name to hide from the communist government of the People's Republic of Poland. He was associated with the Tygodnik Powszechny Catholic weekly and several other newspapers and magazines. He is best known for his books about pre-partition Poland, which played an important role in popularizing Polish history among several generations of readers. Jasienica became an outspoken critic of the communist censorship, and as a notable dissident, he was persecuted by the government. He was subject to invigilation by security services, and his second wife was in fact a communist secret police agent. Jasienica's books were banned during a brief period prior to his death.


More selected biographies…
Read more…




edit  
Selected location






Nowa Huta is an industrial easternmost district of the city of Kraków. Its history began in 1949, when Poland's communist government started to build the Lenin Steelworks (now Tadeusz Sendzimir Steelworks owned by Mittal Steel Company) together with a town for the workers. Nowa Huta, whose name translates as "New Steelworks", was meant to be an ideal socialist and atheist proletarian town supposed to counterbalance Kraków's conservative bourgeoisie. It is Poland's foremost example of socialist realist urban planning and architecture. The workers eventually turned against the communist regime when they demanded – with the help of Archbishop Karol Wojtyła, the future Pope John Paul II – the right to build a church in the 1960s; and when they supported the Solidarity movement in the 1980s.





More selected locations...

Read more...





edit  
Poland now





Recent events

On 9 January, Zygmunt Bauman, a prominent Polish-British sociologist and philosopher who developed the idea of liquid modernity, died at the age of 91.
On 6 January, Polish ski jumpers, Kamil Stoch (pictured, right) and Piotr Żyła (left), won the first and second places, respectively, in the Four Hills Tournament.
During the first week of January, 46 people in Poland died from cold, as the temperatures fell to −20 °C.

Ongoing events

A disagreement between the Constitutional Tribunal on the one side and the legislative and executive powers, fully controlled by the Law and Justice party since 2015, on the other results in a constitutional crisis.

Holidays and observances in February 2017
(statutory public holidays in bold)




Valentine's Day, 14 February
Fat Thursday (Polish doughnuts pictured), 23 February

Archive and more...




edit  
Categories





▼ Poland


► Buildings and structures in Poland



► Economy of Poland



► Environment of Poland



► Geography of Poland



► Government of Poland



► Health in Poland



► History of Poland



► Poland-related lists



► Military of Poland



► Organizations based in Poland



► Polish people



► Politics of Poland



► Polish society



► Sport in Poland



► Tourist attractions in Poland



► Images of Poland



► Poland stubs














edit  
Topics





Geography

North European Plain • Carpathian Mountains • Sudete Mountains • Vistula River • Oder River • Warta River • Bug River • National parks
Administrative division: Greater Poland • Holy Cross Voivodeship • Kuyavia-Pomerania • Lesser Poland • Łódź Voivodeship • Lower Silesia • Lublin Voivodeship • Lubusz Voivodeship • Masovia • Opole Voivodeship • Podlachia • Pomerania • Silesia • Subcarpathia • Warmia-Masuria • West Pomerania
Cities: Warsaw • Białystok • Bydgoszcz • Częstochowa • Gdańsk • Gdynia • Gorzów Wielkopolski • Katowice • Kielce • Kraków • Łódź • Lublin • Olsztyn • Opole • Poznań • Radom • Rzeszów • Sosnowiec • Szczecin • Toruń • Wrocław • Zielona Góra

People

Demographics of Poland • Poles • Ethnic minorities • Notable Poles

Government and politics

Constitution • Rzeczpospolita • Sejm • Senat • Political parties • Elections in Poland
President: Andrzej Duda • Prime Minister: Beata Szydło
Constitutional Tribunal • Supreme Chamber of Control
Armed Forces • Law enforcement



Economy

Agriculture • Tourism • Transport • Telecommunications
Polish National Bank • Złoty
Warsaw Stock Exchange • Companies

Culture

Polish language • Literature • Music • Theater • Cinema • Cuisine
Religions • Roman Catholicism • Pope John Paul II
Education • Science and technology
Sports • Football • Poland at the Olympics
Coat of arms • Flag • National anthem

History

Prehistory • 966–1385 • 1385–1569 • 1569–1795 • 1795–1918 • 1918–1939 • 1939–1945 • 1945–1989 • 1989–present
Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth • Partitions of Poland • People's Republic of Poland • Polish wars • Territorial changes of Poland • Kings and dukes • Presidents and dictators • History of the Jews in Poland








edit  
Related portals













Germany
Czech Republic
Slovakia
Ukraine
Belarus
Lithuania
Russia











Europe
Silesia
Catholicism
World War II
Communism
NATO
European Union







edit  
Wikimedia





Poland at Wikiquote
Quotes

Poland at Commons
Images and other media

Poland at Wikisource
Source texts

Poland at Wikivoyage
Travel guide






edit  
Wikipedia in the languages of Poland





Kaszëbskô Wikipedijô
Kashubian Wikipedia

Polska Wikipedia
Polish Wikipedia

Ślůnsko Wikipedyjo
Silesian Wikipedia

Wymysiöeryś Wikipedyj
Vilamovian Wikipedia Incubator



Беларуская • Česky • Deutsch • Հայերեն • Lietuvių • Romani • Русский • Slovenčina • Українська • ייִדיש






What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Poland&oldid=759184123"					
Categories: European portalsPolandPortals by countryPoland portalHidden categories: Pages using div col with small parameterFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةAzərbaycancaČeštinaDeutschEspañolFrançaisBahasa IndonesiaItalianoMagyarNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСрпски / srpskiУкраїнськаZazaki中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 January 2017, at 18:27.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.180","walltime":"0.285","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1616,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":74336,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6327,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  141.736      1 -total"," 30.83%   43.704      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 17.45%   24.726      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 15.32%   21.714      1 Template:Top_icon"," 12.07%   17.107      1 Template:Purge"," 11.27%   15.970      1 Template:Category_handler","  8.16%   11.564     13 Template:Box-header","  6.99%    9.903      1 Portal:Poland/Categories","  6.77%    9.593      8 Portal:Poland/box-header","  4.96%    7.032      1 Portal:Poland/Events"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.035","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1152623,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1243","timestamp":"20170206150137","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":78,"wgHostname":"mw1241"});});
