 







Portal:Puerto Rico

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Arts · Biography · Geography · History · Mathematics · Philosophy · Science · Society · Technology


edit  
The Puerto Rico Portal




The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico (Spanish: Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico) is a archipelago located east of the Dominican Republic in the northeastern Caribbean. Puerto Rico, the smallest of the Greater Antilles, includes the main island of Puerto Rico and a number of smaller islands and keys, including the populated island-municipalities of Vieques and Culebra, as well as unpopulated Mona island, located halfway between the islands of Puerto Rico and Hispaniola.
The nature of Puerto Rico's political relationship with the United States is the subject of ongoing debate on and off the island. Those who support maintaining the current formula insist that upon attaining this status, Puerto Rico entered into a voluntary association with the U.S. "in the nature of a compact", but opponents of the Commonwealth status, disagree: according to them, Puerto Rico is no more than an unincorporated organized territory of the U.S., subject to the plenary powers of the United States Congress.
More about Puerto Rico...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The Jewish immigration to Puerto Rico began in the 15th century with the arrival of the marranos (variously called conversos, Crypto-Jews, or Secret Jews) who accompanied Christopher Columbus on his second voyage. A Jewish community did not flourish in Puerto Rico because Judaism was prohibited by the Spanish Inquisition. The first large group of Jews to settle in Puerto Rico were European refugees fleeing German–occupied Europe in the 1930s and 1940s. The second influx of Jews to the island came in the 1950s, when thousands of Cuban Jews fled after Fidel Castro came to power. Puerto Rican Jews have made many contributions in multiple fields, including business and commerce, education, and entertainment. Puerto Rico has the largest and richest Jewish community in the Caribbean, with 3,000 Jewish inhabitants. It is also the only Caribbean island in which all three major Jewish denominations—Orthodox, Conservative, and Reform—are represented. (more...)
Suggest • More articles...



edit  
Selected picture





Photo credit: National Astronomy and Ionosphere Center
The Arecibo Observatory is the world's largest single-aperture telescope ever constructed. The telescope's dish has a diameter of over 1,000 ft (305m) and covers over 18 acres. The receiver array is suspended 450 ft (150m) above the dish, supported by three concrete towers each measuring between 265 ft (80m) and 365 ft (110m).

Suggest • More pictures...



edit  
Featured content

Featured content represents the best of what Wikipedia has to offer. The following Puerto Rico-related articles and lists have been designated as Featured () by the community, as a result of many collaborative efforts of users and readers just like you.

Featured articles:
 1928 Okeechobee hurricane
 Elfin woods warbler
 Fauna of Puerto Rico
 Military history of Puerto Rico
 Nutrition Assistance for Puerto Rico
 Puerto Rican amazon
 Ramón Emeterio Betances


Featured lists:
 List of Governors of Puerto Rico
 List of Major League Baseball players from Puerto Rico
 List of birds of Puerto Rico
 List of Puerto Rican boxing world champions
 List of Vieques birds
 List of Puerto Ricans missing in action in the Korean War
 List of awards and nominations received by Ivy Queen






edit  
Selected anniversaries for February



February 3, 1977 - Birth of Daddy Yankee (Ramón "Raymond" Ayala), international reggaeton star
February 4, 1862 - Bacardi, the spirits and rum company, was founded
February 4, 1922 - Birth of Tommy Muñiz, comedian, dramatic actor, network owner and producer
February 5, 1953 - Birth of Giannina Braschi, poet, novelist, essayist.
February 5, 1968 - Birth of Roberto Alomar, former Mayor League Baseball second baseman
February 6, 1939 - Birth of Orlando Parga, politician and Puerto Rico Senator
February 13, 1962 - Birth of Aníbal Acevedo Vilá, 8th democratically-elected Governor of Puerto Rico
February 17, 1904 - Birth of Luis A. Ferré, 3rd democratically-elected Governor of Puerto Rico (d. 2003)
February 18, 1898 - Birth of Luis Muñoz Marín, 1st democratically-elected Governor of Puerto Rico (d. 1980)
February 18, 2007 - Death of Juan "Pachín" Vicéns, basketball player (d. 1934)
February 19, 1913 - Birth of Roberto Sánchez Vilella, 2nd democratically-elected Governor of Puerto Rico (d. 1997)
February 21, 1994 - Death of Oscar Collazo, one of two Puerto Ricans who attempted to assassinate U.S. President Harry S. Truman (b. 1914)
February 22, 1964 - Birth of Gigi Fernández, professional tennis player
February 23, 1959 - Death of Luis Palés Matos, poet credited with creating the genre known as Afro-Antillano (b. 1898)
February 24, 1974 - Birth of Mike Lowell, Mayor League Baseball third baseman
February 25, 1964 - Birth of Enrique Figueroa, Olympic sailor
February 27, 1833 - The Municipality of Guayanilla is founded.
February 29, 1756 - The Municipality of Yauco is founded.
February 21, 1979 - Birth of Carly Colón, professional wrestler

More anniversaries...





edit  
Did you know...



...that travel within the United States includes Puerto Rico, and no U.S. passport is necessary?


...that Gothic churches are rare in the New World, but that Puerto Rico has two: Porta Coeli, built in 1606 in San German, and Iglesia San Jose, built in the 1530's in Old San Juan?


...that Linda Garcia Cubero, USNA Class of 1980, is the first female Hispanic to graduate from a United States military academy?


...that the Elfin woods warbler, an endemic bird of Puerto Rico first observed in 1968, is the last New World warbler species to be discovered?


...That Dr. Pedro Rodriguez, the Director of a test laboratory at NASA and inventor of a portable, battery-operated lift seat for people suffering from knee arthritis is the son of salsa singer Pellín Rodríguez?


...that Juan Mari Brás is the first and only person to receive a Puerto Rican citizenship certificate from the Puerto Rico State Department since the establishment of the Commonwealth in 1952, an action which has been since questioned by the United States Department of State?


...that after the United States, Puerto Rico is tied with Mexico in hosting the most Miss Universe contests and has the third most titleholders following the United States and Venezuela?


...that Wilfredo Gómez won thirty two straight fights by knockout thus making him the World Champion with the longest knockout streak in boxing history?


Add a fact • More interesting facts...
Start a new article





edit  
WikiProjects



WikiProject Puerto Rico

Parent Projects:
Sister Projects:


Geography


    Caribbean
Cuba • Dominican Republic


    Latin America
Mexico • Mesoamerica


    United States
Puerto Rican Highways


Ethnic groups


    Latinos



What are WikiProjects?








edit  
In the news...




September 8, 2011: The US Justice Department issues a report decrying systematic civil rights abuse by the Puerto Rico Police Department, including illegal searches, use of excessive force, and corruption, sparking a wide call for action from the public and an announcement of reform by Gov. Luis Fortuño.
August 21, 2011: Tropical storm Irene passes through Puerto Rico and its surrounding islands while becoming a hurricane just north of San Juan, the first of the 2011 Atlantic season.
June 29, 2011: Jose "Piculin" Ortiz, a former professional basketball player in the NBA (Utah Jazz) and the Puerto Rican Olympic team and the Superior Basketball League, is arrested for drug-related charges.
June 12, 2011: In professional basketball, José Juan "J.J." Barea, helps the Dallas Mavericks defeat the Miami Heat (4-2) and win the 2011 NBA Championship. A national welcoming party is held in his honor in Puerto Rico.




 Find current events from Wikinews
...Archive






edit  
Selected biography



Iván Rodríguez Torres (born November 30, 1971, in Manatí, Puerto Rico), is a professional baseball player for the Washington Nationals. Iván is considered by many to be the greatest defensive catcher ever. Although he has had the nickname "Pudge" since his youth, Rodríguez was often compared early on to the veteran catcher Carlton Fisk, who was also called "Pudge." Rodríguez was awarded the American League (AL) Most Valuable Player Award in 1999. He ranked fourth in the AL among catchers in batting average, at .260.
He won the World Series with the Florida Marlins in 2003, and again reached the World Series as the starting catcher for the 2006 Detroit Tigers.Rodríguez has caught two no-hitters for two different pitchers. The first one was in 1994 when he caught a perfect game by Kenny Rogers. The most recent one was on June 12, 2007 when he caught the no-hitter thrown by Justin Verlander. (more...)
Suggest • More biographies...



edit  
Selected quote





“

We should not be forced to give up our children's U.S. citizenship so that we can get a fuller measure of self-government.

”


— Aníbal Acevedo Vilá, eighth elected and ex Governor of Puerto Rico, in U. S. Senate hearings on Puerto Rico's sovereignty (June 23, 1998.)


Suggest • More quotes...



edit  
Categories



Select [+] to view subcategories



▼ Puerto Rico


► Communications in Puerto Rico



► Economy of Puerto Rico



► Education in Puerto Rico



► Environment of Puerto Rico



► Events in Puerto Rico



► Geography of Puerto Rico



► Government of Puerto Rico



► Health in Puerto Rico



► History of Puerto Rico



► Puerto Rican law



► Puerto Rico-related lists



► Military in Puerto Rico



► Politics of Puerto Rico



► Public holidays in Puerto Rico



► Puerto Rican people



► Puerto Rican society



► Sports in Puerto Rico



► Tourist attractions in Puerto Rico



► Transportation in Puerto Rico



► Wikipedia books on Puerto Rico



► Images of Puerto Rico



► Puerto Rico stubs










edit  
How you can help



On Wikipedia, anyone can edit. So if you're interested in Puerto Rico and its related subjects and articles, feel free to add and edit current content or start a new article. After all, the Wikipedia community encourages all readers and users to be bold in updating pages. If you're unsure on where to start, you can choose any of the open tasks listed below. The Puerto Rico WikiProject thanks you!


Add content to all articles on Puerto Rico's municipalities.







v
t
e


WikiProject Puerto Rico requested articles






Current events



Puerto Rico tax reform








High importance



Aerospace industry in Puerto Rico
Arts industry in Puerto Rico
Automotive industry in Puerto Rico
Construction in Puerto Rico
Banking in Puerto Rico
Cooperativism in Puerto Rico
Electricity sector in Puerto Rico
Energy policy of Puerto Rico
Filming industry in Puerto Rico
Fishing industry in Puerto Rico
Food service industry in Puerto Rico
For-profit education in Puerto Rico
Healthcare industry in Puerto Rico
Hotel industry in Puerto Rico
Insurance in Puerto Rico
Money transfer industry in Puerto Rico
Mortgage industry in Puerto Rico
Music industry in Puerto Rico
News media in Puerto Rico
Pharmaceutic industry in Puerto Rico
Private security industry in Puerto Rico
Recreation in Puerto Rico
Research industry in Puerto Rico
Retail in Puerto Rico
Social programs in Puerto Rico
Technology industry in Puerto Rico
Television in Puerto Rico
Warehousing in Puerto Rico
Wholesale in Puerto Rico








Others



Ana Rosa Luna
Bartolome Bonet Fussá
Billy "La Voz"
David Alemán
Donas Aymat
El Verde
Fernando Bauermeister
José L. Purcell
José Victor Oliver Ledesma
Julio A. Santos
La Cueva del Chicken Inn
Miguel Marquez Muñoz
Museo del Pueblo
Omayra George
Palo Viejo
Rubén García Palmieri
Salvador Tió y Montes de Oca
Shirley Perez
Taco Maker
Oscar Ramón Loubriel Flores







Join WikiProject Puerto Rico today!







edit  
Puerto Rico-related topics




All Puerto Rico-related topics


History
Pre-recorded | Black history | Military history | African immigration | Chinese immigration | Corsican immigration | French immigration | German immigration | Irish immigration | Grito de Lares | Foraker Act | Jones–Shafroth Act | Migration to Hawaii | Migration to New York


Politics
Constitution | The Commonwealth | Governor | Puerto Rican citizenship | Resident Commissioner | Legislative Branch (Senate - House of Representatives) | Supreme Court | Political parties | Military | Independence movement


Geography
Municipalities | Islands | Mona Island | Dry Forests | El Yunque National Forest | Rivers | Puerto Rico Trench


Economy
Companies | Operation Bootstrap | Tourism | Puerto Rican peso (1895–98) | United States dollar (1898-present)


Society
Puerto Ricans | Puerto Ricans in the United States | Demographics | Education | Holidays | Religion


Culture
Art | Buildings and Structures | Casals Festival | Cinema | Cuisine | Literature | Music | Sports


Ecology
Fauna of Puerto Rico | Herpeto fauna | Endemic fauna | Endemic flora | Puerto Rican birds | Vieques birds | Puerto Rican amazon | Golden coquí | Monito gecko | Puerto Rican crested anole | Mona ground iguana | Elfin woods warbler | Puerto Rican trees


Other
Flag | Transportation | Rail transport | Slang | Communications | List of Puerto Ricans | List of fraternities and sororities in Puerto Rico | Scouting in Puerto Rico| Piragua






edit  
Related Portals











Geography 
North America
Latin America 
Caribbean
New Spain












Cuba 
Dominican Republic
Haiti
Jamaica
Mexico
United States




What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






edit  
Related Wikimedia






Dictionary definitions from Wiktionary

Textbooks from Wikibooks

Quotations from Wikiquote

Source texts from Wikisource

Images and media from Commons

News stories from Wikinews

Learning resources from Wikiversity






Purge server cache






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Puerto_Rico&oldid=649229366"					
Categories: Puerto Rico portalUnited States portals by state or territoryCaribbean portalsPortals by countryWikiProject Puerto RicoHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةEspañolFrançaisPortuguês 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:06.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.208","walltime":"0.390","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2188,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":103961,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3951,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  254.687      1 -total"," 27.62%   70.355      4 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 24.22%   61.689      1 Portal:Puerto_Rico/Did_you_know","  9.54%   24.296      1 Portal:Puerto_Rico/Did_you_know/Sports","  9.12%   23.223      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.08%   20.568      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.02%   15.340      1 Template:Category_handler","  5.55%   14.132      1 Portal:Puerto_Rico/to_do","  5.43%   13.824     11 Portal:Puerto_Rico/box-header","  5.24%   13.338     15 Template:Box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.036","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1312216,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1188","timestamp":"20170206173238","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":54,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
