 







Portal:Texas

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



edit  
The Texas Portal





Texas (Spanish: Texas or Tejas [ˈtexas]) is the second most populous and second largest state by area of the 50 states in the United States of America. Geographically located in the south central part of the country, Texas shares borders with the other U.S. states of Louisiana to the east, Arkansas to the northeast, Oklahoma to the north, New Mexico to the west, and an international border with the Mexican states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo León and Tamaulipas to the southwest, along with the Gulf of Mexico to the southeast.
Houston is the largest city in Texas and the fourth-largest in the United States, while San Antonio is the second largest in the state and seventh largest in the United States. Dallas–Fort Worth and Greater Houston are the fourth and fifth largest United States metropolitan statistical areas, respectively. Other major cities include Austin (the state capital) and El Paso. Texas is nicknamed the Lone Star State to signify Texas as a former independent republic, and as a reminder of the state's struggle for independence from Mexico. The "Lone Star" can be found on the Texan state flag and on the Texan state seal. The origin of the state name, Texas, is from the word, "Tejas", which means 'friends' in the Caddo language.
Due to its size and geologic features such as the Balcones Fault, Texas contains diverse landscapes that resemble both the American South and Southwest. Although popularly associated with the Southwestern deserts, less than 10 percent of Texas' land area is desert. Most of the population centers are located in areas of former prairies, grasslands, forests, and the coastline. Traveling from east to west, one can observe terrain that ranges from coastal swamps and piney woods, to rolling plains and rugged hills, and finally the desert and mountains of the Big Bend.
Texas history ...



Show new content


edit  
Selected article



The Alamo is the name of former mission and fortress compound, now a museum, in San Antonio, Texas. The compound, which originally comprised a church and surrounding buildings, was built by the Spanish Empire in the 18th century for the education of local Native Americans after their conversion to Christianity. After its later abandonment as a mission, it was used as a fortress in the 19th century and was the scene of several military actions, including most notably the 1836 Battle of the Alamo, one of the pivotal battles between the forces of the Republic of Texas and Mexico during the Texas Revolution.
The mission was authorized in 1716 by the viceroy of New Spain. It was established two years later in 1718 by Fray Antonio de Olivares, who brought Indian converts and records with him from the San Francisco Solano Mission near San Juan Bautista on the Rio Grande.
More articles...



edit  
Selected biography


William Perry "Bill" Clements, Jr. (born April 17, 1917) is the first Republican to have served as governor of the U.S. state of Texas since Reconstruction. He served two nonconsecutive terms from 1979-1983 and 1987-1991. Clements was born in Dallas and worked as an oil driller for many years. He founded SEDCO, the world's largest offshore drilling company. Clements entered politics as the Deputy United States Secretary of Defense under Presidents Nixon and Ford, in the latter administration under Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld.
More biographies...



edit  
Texas news

Wikinews Texas portal


January 18: Former NASA astronaut Eugene Cernan dies aged 82
December 6: Prominent Texas attorney dead, just days following daughter's suicide
September 26: Multiple people wounded in Houston, Texas shooting
July 10: Five police officers killed in Dallas, Texas during sniper attack

Archive



edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : Create an article from the needed articles list.
Cleanup : Texas articles needing attention,
*Add city infobox to all town/city articles missing one.
*Add appropriate bio infobox to all Texas bio articles missing one.
*Texas articles needing cleanup
Expand : Category:Start-Class Texas articles
Featured article candidates : Category:GA-Class Texas articles, * No results were found.
Featured list candidates : * No results were found.
Featured sound candidates : * No results were found.
Good article nominations : *


 Raymond Berry
 Jean Brooks
 Death of Irene Garza
 Joe Greene (American football)
 John Heisman
 History of East Texas Normal College
 Klein Independent School District
 Josh McCown
 Montrose Center
 Paul Harpole



Geographical coordinates : Texas articles missing geocoordinate data
Infobox : Texas articles needing infoboxes
Map : Requested maps in Texas
Photo : Requested photographs in Texas
*Add a picture to an article in the list of requested photographs in Texas (Most towns in Texas are still on the list) or improve one of the articles with 0 or 1 images on the list of needed pictures.
Stubs : Stub-Class Texas articles
Unreferenced : Unreferenced Texas articles
Other : *Lists to de-redlink: Category:Texas-related lists
Sub project help: National Register of Historic Places listings in Texas
Coordinate with Texas Portal to provide quality articles for use.
Place the {{WikiProject United States|class=|importance=|TX=Yes|TX-importance=}} banner into Texas related articles and assess











edit  
Selected picture



Credit: User:RadicalBender
The Cotton Bowl in Fair Park.
More pictures...



edit  
Spotlight city



Abilene is a city in Taylor County, Texas. The population was 115,930 at the 2000 census. It is the principal city of the Abilene, Texas, Metropolitan Statistical Area and the county seat of Taylor County [1]. Dyess Air Force Base is located to the west of the city.
Abilene is located off Interstate 20, between exits 279 on its western edge and 292 on the east, 150 miles west of Fort Worth, Texas. The city is looped by I-20 to the north, US 277/83 on the west, and FM 322 to the east. A railroad divides the city from east to west, into north and south areas. The downtown area is on the north side of the railroad.
More cities...



edit  
State symbols




Flower
Bluebonnet





Motto
Friendship


Nickname
The Lone Star State


Tree
Pecan


Dog
Blue Lacy


Bird
Mockingbird






edit  
WikiProjects





You are invited to participate in WikiProject Texas, a WikiProject dedicated to developing and improving articles about Texas.







edit  
Categories


Select [+] to view subcategories



▼ Texas


► Texas-related lists



► Books about Texas



► Buildings and structures in Texas



► Communications in Texas



► Texas culture



► Demographics of Texas



► Economy of Texas



► Education in Texas



► Environment of Texas



► Geography of Texas



► Government of Texas



► Health in Texas



► History of Texas



► Landmarks in Texas



► Texas law



► Military in Texas



► Native American tribes in Texas



► People from Texas



► Politics of Texas



► Science and technology in Texas



► Texas society



► Sports in Texas



► Tourist attractions in Texas



► Transportation in Texas



► Wikipedia books on Texas



► Images of Texas



► Texas stubs










edit  
Lists



Texas-related lists




Biology

Texas mammals
Texas amphibians
Texas reptiles

Geography

Texas area codes
Texas highways
Texas metropolitan areas
Texas rivers
Texas state parks
Texas historic places





People

German Texans
Individuals executed in Texas
People from Texas

Government

Texas counties
Governors of Texas
Republic of Texas Presidents
Texas school districts













edit  
Attractions



Entertainment








The Alamo



Amusement parks
Schlitterbahn
SeaWorld San Antonio
Six Flags Fiesta Texas
Six Flags Over Texas
SplashTown Waterpark Houston


Festivals
Austin City Limits Music Festival
Fiesta San Antonio
Holiday Trail of Lights
Houston Gay Pride Parade
South by Southwest
State Fair of Texas






Educational
Aquarena Springs
Dallas Museum of Art
Fort Worth Zoo
Houston Museum of Natural Science
Houston Zoo
McDonald Observatory
Moody Gardens





Moody Gardens



Theaters
Bass Performance Hall
Hobby Center for the Performing Arts
The Paramount Theatre

















Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center








Sites of interest
Bank of America Plaza
Big Tex
John Fitzgerald Kennedy Memorial
JPMorgan Chase Tower
Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center
Mission Control Center
Odessa Meteor Crater
Reunion Tower
San Antonio River Walk
San Jacinto Plaza
South Padre Island
Texas School Book Depository
Tower of the Americas










Big Tex, mascot of the State Fair of Texas










Federally protected areas








Mission Concepción, San Antonio, Texas



Parks
Amistad National Recreation Area
Big Bend National Park
Guadalupe Mountains National Park
Lake Meredith National Recreation Area
Rio Grande Wild and Scenic River





Santa Elena Canyon, Rio Grande



Forests
Angelina National Forest
Davy Crockett National Forest
Sabine National Forest
Sam Houston National Forest


Cemeteries
Dallas-Fort Worth National Cemetery
Fort Bliss National Cemetery
Fort Sam Houston National Cemetery
Houston National Cemetery
Kerrville National Cemetery
San Antonio National Cemetery


Monuments
Alibates Flint Quarries National Monument





Padre Island National Seashore



Memorials
Chamizal National Memorial


Preserves
Big Thicket


Seashores
Padre Island National Seashore









San Jacinto Monument seen from the USS Texas



Landmarks
Alamo Mission in San Antonio
Fort Sam Houston
King Ranch
San Jacinto Monument
Spindletop
Texas State Capitol
USS Texas (BB-35)


Presidential libraries
George Bush Presidential Library
George W. Bush Presidential Library
Lyndon Baines Johnson Library and Museum





Battle of Palo Alto historical marker



Historic places
Adolphus Hotel
Barton Springs
Caverns of Sonora
Dealey Plaza
Eisenhower Birthplace Historic Site
El Camino Real de los Tejas Historic Trail
Elissa
Fair Park
Fort Concho
Fort Davis Historic Site
Lyndon B. Johnson Historical Park
Mission San Juan Capistrano
Natural Bridge Caverns
Palo Alto Battlefield Historic Site
San Antonio Missions Historical Park
Strand Historic Landmark District
Texas State Cemetery









State parks





Bastrop State Park
Big Spring State Park
Brazos Bend State Park
Buescher State Park
Caprock Canyons State Park
Cleburne State Park






Colorado Bend State Park
Dinosaur Valley State Park
Enchanted Rock
Galveston Island State Park
Garner State Park
Longhorn Cavern State Park






Lost Maples State Natural Area
Lyndon B. Johnson State Park
McKinney Falls State Park
Palo Duro Canyon
Stephen F. Austin State Park
Washington-on-the-Brazos












Eagle Point, Caprock Canyons State Park







edit  
Texas topics



Topics - Texans - Regions


Cities: Amarillo - Austin - Corpus Christi - Dallas - El Paso - Fort Worth - Houston - San Antonio


History: Spanish Texas - Mexican Texas - Slavery in Texas - Republic of Texas - Texas in the American Civil War - State of Texas


Geography: Geology of Texas - Lakes - Metropolitan areas - Parks - North Texas - East Texas - South Texas - West Texas


Government: Constitution - Economy - Judicial system - Legislature - Politics - Rick Perry - State Capitol


Education: Elementary schools - Middle schools - High schools - Higher Education - TAKS - UIL


People: Actors - Artists - Fictional characters - African-American Texans - Mexican-American Texans - German Texans - Jewish Texans - Governors of Texas - Texas Rangers - Writers


Industries: Agriculture - Continental Airlines - DFW International Airport - Oil - Port of Houston - Ranching - Texas Medical Center - Texas Farm Bureau - University of Texas System


Statistics: Population





edit  
Related pages


Wikiportals



































United States

Austin

Dallas

Houston

Texas A&M University

Texas Tech University

University of Houston

University of Texas at Austin






WikiProjects
Texas  •  Austin  •  Dallas  •  Houston  •  Texas A&M  •  Texas Tech  •  University of Houston  •  University of Texas  •  State Highways









edit  
Wikimedia






Texas on Wikinews
News

Texas on Wikiquote
Quotes

Texas on Commons
Images

Texas on Wikisource
Texts

Texas on Wikibooks
Books








What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






^ "Find a County". National Association of Counties. Retrieved 2011-06-07. 




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Texas&oldid=706081547"					
Categories: United States portals by state or territoryTexas portalsWikiProject TexasHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


EspañolفارسیFrançaisItalianoPortuguêsРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 21 February 2016, at 09:40.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.332","walltime":"0.492","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2182,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":95454,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":14996,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  421.413      1 -total"," 20.62%   86.888      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.45%   48.233      1 Portal:Texas/Intro"," 11.39%   47.999      1 Wikipedia:WikiProject_Texas/to_do"," 10.73%   45.208      1 Template:Tasks"," 10.52%   44.336      1 Template:Cite_web","  9.96%   41.968      1 Template:Lang-es","  9.66%   40.694      1 Template:Language_with_name","  9.20%   38.775      1 Template:Lang","  8.99%   37.871      2 Template:Category_handler"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.077","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2334292,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1204","timestamp":"20170211233553","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":72,"wgHostname":"mw1263"});});
