 







Portal:Ukraine

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
 Ласкаво просимо до порталу «Україна» 
Welcome to the Ukraine Portal























Shortcut:

P:UKR





Ukraine (i/juːˈkreɪn/ yew-KRAYN; Ukrainian: Україна; transliterated: Ukrayina; [ukrɑˈjinɑ]) is a country in Central and Eastern Europe. Ukraine borders the Russian Federation to the east and northeast, Belarus to the northwest, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary to the west, Romania and Moldova to the southwest, and the Black Sea and Sea of Azov to the south and southeast, respectively. It has an area of 603,628 km², making it the second largest contiguous country on the European continent, after the Russian Federation.
From at least the ninth century, the territory of Ukraine was a centre of medieval East Slavic civilization that formed the state that became known as Kievan Rus' and for the following several centuries the territory was divided between a number of regional powers. After a brief period of independence (1917-1921) following the Russian Revolution of 1917, Ukraine became one of the founding Soviet Republics in 1922. The Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic's territory was enlarged westward after the Second World War and finally in 1954 with the Crimea transfer. Ukraine became independent again when the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991.
Ukraine is a unitary state composed of 27 regions: 24 oblasts (provinces), one autonomous republic (Crimea), and two cities with special status: Kiev, its capital and largest city, and Sevastopol, which, along with Crimea, is disputed between Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine is a republic under a semi-presidential system with separate legislative, executive, and judicial branches. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Ukraine continues to maintain the second largest military in Europe, after that of Russia. The country is home to 46 million people, 77.8 percent of whom are ethnic Ukrainians, with sizable minorities of Russians (17%), Belarusians and Romanians. The Ukrainian language is the official language in Ukraine. Russian is also widely spoken. The dominant religion in the country is Eastern Orthodox Christianity, which has heavily influenced Ukrainian architecture, literature and music.
More about Ukraine…






edit  
Featured article
















The title of Hero of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Герой України, translit. Heroy Ukrayiny; Russian: Герой Украины) is the highest award that can be conferred by the Government of Ukraine. The title was created in 1998 by President Leonid Kuchma, and it is currently awarded in two distinctions: one for heroism and one for great achievements in labor. Since Borys Paton first received the title in 1998, 144 people have been awarded the title. Decorations that are similar to the Hero of Ukraine are Russia's Hero of the Russian Federation and Belarus's Hero of Belarus. All of those decorations were influenced in some way by decorations handed out by the Soviet Union.
Read more — Archive ...




edit  
Selected picture







Zbarazh (Ukrainian: Збараж, Polish: Zbaraż, Yiddish: Zbarj) is a small city in the Ternopil Oblast (province) of western Ukraine. It is the administrative center of the Zbarazh Raion (district), and is located in the historic region of Galicia. The major attraction of the city is the Zbarazh Castle that played a key role during the Khmelnytsky Uprising, the heroic defense of which eventually led to change of momentum and extinguishing the Cossack revolt.

Photo credit: plf16
Read more — Candidates — Archive ...




edit  
Did you know...


Featured at Did you know section at the Wikipedia's Main Page


... that although the secular music of Mykola Leontovych was well known in the twentieth century, the Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom was little known because of a ban on sacred music in the Soviet Union?
... that Ukrainian composer Mykola Leontovych (pictured), known for the "Carol of the Bells", was nicknamed "Ukrainian Bach" in France?
... that journalist Savik Shuster who used to work for Russian TV channels now prefers to work for the Ukrainian TV because he felt the Russian Government was limiting his journalistic freedom?
... that the married Western Ukrainian Clergy became a hereditary caste that dominated western Ukrainian society?
... that Ukrainian naturalist, lecturer, artist and author John Lhotsky was credited as the first discoverer of gold in New South Wales?
...that according to legend, a tunnel leads from the Kamianets-Podilskyi Castle to the Khotyn Fortress which is 20 kilometres (12 mi) away?



...that during the Shuliavka worker's uprising of 1905, groups of 150 armed men patrolled the streets of the Shuliavka neighborhood in Kiev to clean the area of any resistors to their movement?
...that Vasyl Krychevsky, a Ukrainian artist, designed the state emblem of the Ukrainian National Republic at the request of Mykhailo Hrushevskyi?
...that the Emperor of Russia, Alexander III bought the art of Ukrainian realist painter Volodymyr Orlovsky?
...that Swedish-Ukrainian relations have long traditions and that the Swedish king Charles XII was named protector of Ukraine in the first Ukrainian constitution of 1710 and that Hetman Pylyp Orlyk lived in Sweden 1716–1720?
...that the Russian composers Peter Tchaikovsky, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and Serge Rachmaninoff used Ukrainian folk melodies in their works?
...that Polish-Ukrainian relations have been steadily improving since the fall of communism, and both countries now have a strong strategic relationship?
...that the Ukrainian Baroque architecture is distinct from Western European Baroque in that its designs were more constructivist, had more moderate ornamentation, and were simpler in form?
...that according to Ukrainian folklore, the girl who finds Chervona Ruta, "Red Rue" in Ukrainian, on the Ivan Kupala Day, will be happy in love?
...that the 11th century Duke Yaropolk Izyaslavich is an Eastern Orthodox saint?
...that in 1956, the Pidhirtsi Castle in Lviv Oblast, Ukraine. burned for three weeks costing US$12 million in damages?
...that the Holy Trinity Church was the oldest church in Kamianets-Podilskyi, Ukraine, until it was destroyed by the Soviets in 1935?
Archive ...






edit  
Selected painting






By the water well Konstiantyn Trutovsky
Konstiantyn Trutovsky was a Ukrainian realist painter and graphic artist. His artistic heritage includes numerous genre screens on Ukrainian themes. Trutovsky was interested in ethnography and depicted colorful Ukrainian folk customs, not shying away from "a dash of good humour".
Read more — Candidates — Archive ...






edit  
In the news


 News from Ukraine


Spring 2014 - after the 2014 Ukrainian revolution, and the subsequent Russian military intervention in Ukraine, people are urging: Do not buy Russian goods!


 Wikinews on Ukraine — Archive ...




edit  
Categories






▼ Ukraine


► Ukraine-related lists



► Buildings and structures in Ukraine



► Economy of Ukraine



► Education in Ukraine



► Environment of Ukraine



► Geography of Ukraine



► History of Ukraine



► Military of Ukraine



► Nature of Ukraine



► Ukrainian people



► Politics of Ukraine



► Science and technology in Ukraine



► Ukrainian society



► Sport in Ukraine



► Tourist attractions in Ukraine



► Transport in Ukraine



► People from the Nazi Ukraine



► Images of Ukraine



► Ukraine stubs










edit  
WikiProjects and collaborations




From the new article announcement board (watch)


From the Ukraine-related Wikipedia notice board (watch)

Suggested image sources




WikiProject Deletion sorting/Ukraine (watch)


WikiProjects




Ukraine

Subdivisions of Ukraine
Ukrainian Football


Russian and Soviet military history task force








edit  
Things you can do



If you just came here for the first time, please read this and be bold... but timid.

Articles needing major work, Be Bold!: a cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.


To start: Moldavian speaking Ukrainians, Ukrainian speaking Moldavians, Miroslav Skochilyas, Smerichka, Roman Oleksiv, Metropolitan Oleksiy (Hromadsky), Political reform in Ukraine (2004)


Stubs needing expansion:

{{Ukraine-stub}} : Mayor of Kiev, Ukrainian Navy, Ukrainian rock, State Border Guard Service of Ukraine, Berkut (Ukraine), Sport in Ukraine, Supreme Court of Ukraine, Kiev Bank Union, Ukrzaliznytsia, Shevchenko National Prize
{{Ukraine-hist-stub}} : Koliyivschyna, Elected Cossacks, Koshovyi Otaman, Ataman, 1st Ukrainian Front
{{Ukraine-bio-stub}} : Pylyp Orlyk, Ivan Pidkova, Kyrylo Rozumovsky,
{{Ukraine-geo-stub}} : Ros' River, Yayla Mountains, Yablonitsky Pass, Arcadia Beach, Poshtova Square
{{East-Slavic-history-stub}} : Battle on the Irpen' River, List of early East Slavic states, Hypatian Codex
{{Soviet-stub}} : Ukrainian SSR, Flag of the Ukrainian SSR, Coat of arms of the Ukrainian SSR




Featured portal: Portal:Ukraine


Featured pictures: Reply of the Zaporozhian Cossacks (Commons), 1691 map of Kamianets-Podilskyi, Downtown Lviv (C), Nataliya Gotsiy


Featured articles: St. Michael's Golden-Domed Monastery, Sviatoslav I of Kiev, Rus' Khaganate, Caspian expeditions of the Rus, House with Chimaeras


Former Featured articles: Hero of Ukraine, T-34


Featured article candidate's status within reach: Ukraine, Yulia Tymoshenko, Kamianets-Podilskyi Castle


Good articles: Andriyivskyy Descent, Rus'-Byzantine War (860), Kiev Offensive (1920), Onion dome, Oleg of Novgorod, Second Battle of Kharkov, Kiev Expedition (1018), Mezhyhirskyi Monastery, Ukraine, Battle of the Kalka River, Battle of Kostiuchnówka, Yulia Tymoshenko, Kamianets-Podilskyi Castle, Vorontsov Palace (Alupka), Zoloti Vorota


Former Good articles: Boltysh crater, Chernobyl disaster, Donetsk, Crimean Karaites


Images wanted:


Tetyana Yablonska photograph or painting?
Proposed featured images;
A picture of the ministry of defense building.






edit  
Selected anniversaries for February



February 4, 1945—February 11, 1945 — Yalta Conference was held between the heads of government of the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union; Franklin D. Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Joseph Stalin, respectively.
February 10, 1995 — the first prototype of the Ukrainian Antonov An-70 transport aircraft crashed during a test flight in Kiev Oblast.
February 23, 2017 — Defender of the Fatherland Day
February 23, 1954 — Viktor Yushchenko, a former President of Ukraine, was born in Khoruzhivka, Sumy Oblast.

More anniversaries ...






edit  
Main topics




History
List of Ukrainian rulers • Early East Slavs • Kievan Rus' • Mongol invasion • Halych-Volynia • Grand Duchy of Lithuania • Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth • Cossack era • Imperial Russia • Austrian Galicia • Ukrainian People's Republic • Western Ukrainian Republic • Ukrainian SSR • Independent Ukraine ...


Politics

Central Election Commission • Elections • Referendums • Government • Verkhovna Rada • Political parties • President • Cabinet of Ministers • Prime Minister • Foreign relations • ... ...



Religion
History of Christianity • Ukrainian Orthodox Church (Moscow Patriarchate) • Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church • Roman Catholicism in Ukraine • Ukrainian Orthodox Church - Kiev Patriarchate • Ukrainian Autocephalous Orthodox Church • Islam in Ukraine • Judaism in Ukraine ...


Law
Constitution • Judicial system • Constitutional Court • Supreme Court • Prosecutor General


Armed forces
Chief directorate of intelligence of the Ministry of Defence • Foreign Intelligence Service • Security Service • Ministry of Internal Affairs • Berkut • State Border Guard Service • Ukrainian Air Force • Ukrainian Navy • Sea Guard ...


Administrative divisions
Historical regions • List of Ukrainian territories: by area · by population • List of raions • Lists of cities: by population · by subdivision • List of urban-type settlements • List of villages ...


Geography
Craters • Rivers • Rock formations • ...


Economy
Companies • National Bank • National Currency • Tourism • Transport ...


Demographics
Ukrainian language • Ukrainians • Ukrainian Census • Racism in Ukraine •Russian language in Ukraine • ...


Culture

Coat of arms • Cuisine • Dance • Education • Famous Ukrainians • Flag • Hero • Music • National anthem • Name • Sport • Wine • ...







edit  
Related portals
















Europe
Crimea
Romania
Moldova
Hungary
Slovakia
Poland
Belarus
Russia
Georgia






edit  
Ukrainian editions of Wikimedia projects





Encyclopedia
Dictionary
Quotations
Texts
News
Books



























edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Ukraine on Wikinews    
Ukraine on Wikiquote    
Ukraine on Wikibooks    
Ukraine on Wikisource    
Ukraine on Wikicommons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Images

























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Ukraine&oldid=752974825"					
Categories: UkraineEuropean portalsPortals by countryHidden categories: Articles including recorded pronunciationsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàČeštinaDeutschEspañolFrançaisItalianoქართულიLietuviųМакедонскиNederlandsPolskiPortuguêsРусскийСрпски / srpskiSvenskaУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 4 December 2016, at 13:01.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.208","walltime":"0.306","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2010,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":74169,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3355,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":5,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  168.584      1 -total"," 39.89%   67.248      1 Portal:Ukraine/Intro"," 17.54%   29.569      1 Portal:Ukraine/Did_you_know"," 16.85%   28.400      4 Template:Lang"," 16.61%   28.000      3 Template:Language_with_name_and_transliteration"," 15.76%   26.575      5 Template:Category_handler"," 15.58%   26.257      1 Template:Convert"," 13.74%   23.160      1 Template:Lang-uk"," 10.62%   17.903      1 Template:Shortcut","  7.06%   11.908     14 Template:Box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.039","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2427458,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1183","timestamp":"20170211005126","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":481,"wgHostname":"mw1183"});});
