 







Portal:Wales

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
 Welcome to the Wales Portal! 
Croeso i Borth Cymru!





Shortcut:

P:W


Wales (Welsh: Cymru, pronounced [ˈkəmrɨ] ( listen)) is a country that is part of the United Kingdom, bordered by England to its east and the Atlantic Ocean and Irish Sea to its west. It has a population of three million, and a total area of 20,779 km2 (8,023 sq mi). Wales has over 2,700 km (1,700 mi) of coastline and is largely mountainous, with its highest peaks in the north and central areas, including Snowdon (Yr Wyddfa), its highest summit. The country lies within the north temperate zone and has a changeable, maritime climate.
Wales was an agricultural society for most of its early history, the country's terrain meaning that pastoral farming was the primary source of its wealth. In the 18th century, the introduction of the slate and metallurgical industries at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution began to transform the country into an industrial nation. The exploitation of the South Wales coalfield in the Victorian era caused a rapid expansion of the Welsh population. Two-thirds of Wales' inhabitants now live in South Wales, mainly in and around the capital city, Cardiff (Caerdydd), in the cities of Swansea (Abertawe) and Newport (Casnewydd), and in the nearby valleys. Today, with the country's traditional heavy industries either gone or in decline, Wales' economy depends on the public sector, light and service industries, and tourism.
From the late 19th century onwards, Wales acquired its popular image as the "land of song", attributable in part to the revival of the eisteddfod tradition. Although football has traditionally been the more popular sport in North Wales, rugby union is seen as a symbol of Welsh identity and an expression of national consciousness. Wales is officially bilingual, with the Welsh and English languages having equal status. The Welsh language is an important element of Welsh culture, and is spoken by over 580,000 people, more than 20% of the population. Following annexation by England in the 16th century, English law has been the legal system of Wales and England; the National Assembly for Wales, created in 1999 following a referendum, holds responsibility for a range of devolved policy matters.
More about Wales...



Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Caernarfon Castle (Welsh: Castell Caernarfon) is a medieval building in Gwynedd, north-west Wales. There was a motte-and-bailey castle in the town of Caernarfon from the late 11th century until 1283 when King Edward I of England began replacing it with the current stone structure. The Edwardian town and castle acted as the administrative centre of north Wales and as a result the defences were built on a grand scale. There was a deliberate link with Caernarfon's Roman past – nearby is the Roman fort of Segontium – and the castle's walls are reminiscent of the Walls of Constantinople.
The town and castle were sacked in 1294 when Madog ap Llywelyn led a rebellion against the English. Caernarfon was recaptured the following year. During the Glyndŵr Rising of 1400–1415, the castle was besieged. When the Tudor dynasty ascended to the English throne in 1485, tensions between the Welsh and English began to diminish and castles were considered less important. As a result, Caernarfon Castle was allowed to fall into a state of disrepair. Despite its dilapidated condition, during the English Civil War Caernarfon Castle was held by Royalists, and was besieged three times by Parliamentarian forces. This was the last time the castle was used in war. Caernarfon Castle was neglected until the 19th century when the state funded repairs. In 1911, Caernarfon Castle was used for the investiture of the Prince of Wales, and again in 1969. It is part of the World Heritage Site "Castles and Town Walls of King Edward in Gwynedd".



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Donarreiskoffer



The Marloes peninsula on the Pembrokeshire coast, Wales



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...?



... that from a standing start, Wales rugby union international Roy John could jump up and reach the crossbar set at 3.2 metres (10 ft 6 in) above the ground?
... that unlike most other churches in Anglesey, St Ffinan's Church was built in Romanesque revival style?
... that the 15th-century church of St Twrog, Bodwrog has some bull's head decorations, showing its link with a prominent local family of that time?
... that legend says that Welsh noblewoman Gwladys ferch Dafydd Gam was so beloved that when she died 3000 knights, nobles and weeping peasants followed her body to its burial place?

More...





edit  
Selected biography



Gethin Clifford Jones (born 12 February 1978) is a Welsh television presenter best known for co-presenting the long-running BBC children's show Blue Peter. An active rugby union player when at the Manchester Metropolitan University and for a time after graduation, Jones began his television career on Welsh channel S4C as a presenter of children's programmes such as Popty, Mas Draw and the flagship children's entertainment show Uned 5 (Unit 5, 2002–2005). In 2005, he became the 31st presenter of Blue Peter, the world's longest-running children's television series. He has also hosted major live telecasts of events like Mardi Gras in Cardiff and New Year Live (2007) and, from 2008, co-hosts the entertainment news programme E24 on BBC News 24. He has made guest appearances in various programmes, including The Mighty Boosh (2004) and Doctor Who (2006). In 2007 Jones was a contestant in Series 5 of Strictly Come Dancing, achieving third place.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In the news

Wikinews Wales portal


December 15: UEFA Champions League 2016-2017: Draw for Last 16 held at Nyon
November 1: Bale signs contract extension with Real Madrid to 2022
July 8: UEFA Euro 2016, semifinal: Portugal beats Wales 2-0
July 3: UEFA Euro 2016, quarter-finals: Wales beat Belgium 3-1





edit  
Categories






▼ Wales


► Buildings and structures in Wales



► Communications in Wales



► Welsh culture



► Economy of Wales



► Education in Wales



► Environment of Wales



► Environmental studies institutions in Wales



► Events in Wales



► Geography of Wales



► Health in Wales



► History of Wales



► Landmarks in Wales



► Welsh law



► Wales-related lists



► Military of Wales



► Organisations based in Wales



► Welsh people



► Politics of Wales



► Science and technology in Wales



► Welsh society



► Sport in Wales



► Subdivisions of Wales



► Tourist attractions in Wales



► Images of Wales



► Wales stubs












edit  
Selected quote





It is spring, moonless night in the small town, starless and bible-black, the cobblestreets silent and the hunched, courters'-and-rabbits' wood limping invisible down to the sloeblack, slow, black, crowblack, fishingboat-bobbing sea.
— Dylan Thomas, Under Milk Wood (1954)







Archive


Read more...






edit  
Wales topics





History


Prehistory
Roman Era
Castles
Early Middle Ages
Kingdom of Gwynedd
Kingdom of Powys
Deheubarth
Welsh law
Norman invasion
Late Middle Ages
Statute of Rhuddlan
Glyndŵr Rising
Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542




Politics


Elections
Assembly
First Minister
Secretary of State
Welsh Office
Self-government




Geography


Geology
Mountains and hills
Islands
Lakes
Rivers
Protected areas




Demographics and language


Welsh people
Welsh language
History of the Welsh language* Welsh English




Culture


Education
Music (National anthem)
Literature in Welsh
Literature in English
Eisteddfod* Art
Media
Museums




Religion


Saint David
Welsh Methodist revival
1904–1905 Welsh Revival
Church in Wales




Symbols


National flag (other flags)
Welsh Dragon
Prince of Wales's feathers
Royal Badge of Wales




Sport


Rugby union (National team)
Football (National team)
Boxing
Cricket
Rugby league (National team)







edit  
Featured content









Featured articles: King Arthur · Asser · William Cragh · John Dee · Rhys ap Gruffydd · Tom Pryce · Sasha (DJ) · Slate industry in Wales · Talyllyn Railway · Wales national rugby union team · Alfred Russel Wallace
Featured lists: List of alumni of Jesus College, Oxford: Clergy · List of alumni of Jesus College, Oxford: Law and government · List of alumni of Jesus College, Oxford: Mathematics, medicine and science · List of alumni of Jesus College, Oxford · Friends of Friendless Churches · List of Honorary Fellows of Jesus College, Oxford · List of founding Fellows, Scholars and Commissioners of Jesus College, Oxford · List of county courts in England and Wales · List of former county courts in Wales · List of Principals and Fellows of Jesus College, Oxford



Featured pictures:















Crib Goch 













National Fund for the Welsh Troops Grand Matinee poster by Frank Brangwyn 










Featured sounds:











1899 recording of Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau







Good articles: A4232 road · Aberdaron · Anglesey Central Railway · Rakie Ayola · Norman Biggs · Bullet for My Valentine · Caernarfon Castle · Caernarfon town walls · Caffo · Capel Lligwy · Cardiff Arms Park · Cardiff Castle · Conwy town walls · Andrew Crofts (footballer) · (Drawing) Rings Around the World · Ebbw Valley Railway · Timothy Everest · Flat Holm · Golden Retriever (song) · Arthur Gould (rugby player) · Hello Sunshine · The Holy Bible (album) · It's Not the End of the World? · Herbert Armitage James · Barry John · Gethin Jones · Juxtapozed with U · Kidwelly and Llanelly Canal · Llanishen Reservoir · Llantwit Major · John McFall (athlete) · Milford Haven · Millennium Stadium · Neath and Tennant Canal · Old Bridge, Pontypridd · Old Church of St Gwenllwyfo, Llanwenllwyfo · Our Lady Star of the Sea and St Winefride, Amlwch · Parc Cwm long cairn · Penmon · Phantom Phorce · Phantom Power (Super Furry Animals album) · Pont-y-Cafnau · Guto Puw · Raglan Castle · Rhondda · Rings Around the World · Senedd · Sibyl de Neufmarché · Slow Life · Snowdon · St Caian's Church, Tregaian · St Beuno's Church, Trefdraeth · St Ceidio's Church, Rhodogeidio · St Cristiolus's Church, Llangristiolus · St Cwyllog's Church, Llangwyllog · St Deiniol's Church, Llanddaniel Fab · St Eleth's Church, Amlwch · St Fflewin's Church, Llanfflewin · St Gallgo's Church, Llanallgo · St Gwenllwyfo's Church, Llanwenllwyfo · St Iestyn's Church, Llaniestyn · St Llibio's Church, Llanllibio · St Mary's Church, Bodewryd · St Mary's Church, Llanfair Mathafarn Eithaf · St Mary's Church, Pentraeth · St Mary's Church, Rhodogeidio · St Mary's Church, Tal-y-llyn · St Pabo's Church, Llanbabo · St Peirio's Church, Rhosbeirio · St Peulan's Church, Llanbeulan · St Twrog's Church, Bodwrog · St Tyfrydog's Church, Llandyfrydog · The Tale of The Flopsy Bunnies · Wales · Wales Millennium Centre · David Watts Morgan · Welsh Springer Spaniel · Y Gododdin




edit  
Things you can do







Expand
Carmarthen Bay · Clwydian Range · Glyn Daniel · List of places in Anglesey · List of places in Ceredigion · List of places in Gwynedd · List of places in Monmouthshire · List of places in Pembrokeshire · List of places in Powys · Pembroke River · River Cothi · River Dwyryd · River Ebbw · River Honddu · River Ithon · River Llynfi · River Mawddach · River Mynach · River Neath · River Ogwen · River Rheidol · River Taff · River Vyrnwy · River Ystwyth


Translate from Welsh
cy:Capel Seion, Llanrhaeadr-ym-Mochnant (Capel Seion, Llanrhaeadr ym Mochnant), Grade II* listed building · cy:Trefeurig (Trefeurig)


Create
Aberfan Cemetery · East Glamorgan General Hospital · Military of Wales · River Gyffin · Welsh Folk Music Revival


Requested images
Welsh places • Welsh people


Participate
Join a WikiProject








edit  
Related portals












United Kingdom
England
Scotland
Northern Ireland
Cornwall
Isle of Man






edit  
Related projects









Cardiff • Cheshire • Cities • England • Greater Manchester • London • Scotland • UK • UK geography • UK subdivisions • Wales
Welsh Wikipedians' notice board










edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Wales&oldid=728358552"					
Categories: United Kingdom portalsWalesHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةCymraegEspañolEuskaraFrançaisРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 4 July 2016, at 21:22.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.260","walltime":"0.467","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2510,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":114574,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":25738,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  323.818      1 -total"," 41.27%  133.644      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 27.03%   87.537      1 Portal:Wales/Intro","  9.96%   32.242      3 Template:Convert","  9.44%   30.558      6 Template:Lang","  8.86%   28.696      7 Template:Category_handler","  7.60%   24.600      2 Template:Lang-cy","  7.16%   23.177      2 Template:Language_with_name","  5.81%   18.822      1 Template:Shortcut","  5.74%   18.595      1 Portal:Wales/Features"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.076","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3288212,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1209","timestamp":"20170207211529","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":57,"wgHostname":"mw1216"});});
