 







Portal:Sports

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





edit  
The Sports Portal



Sport, also known as sports, is all forms of physical activity which, through casual or organized participation, aim to use, maintain or improve physical ability. Sport can be practiced for health, for leisure or competitively, in the latter case often with spectators. Hundreds of sports exist, both from those requiring only two participants, through to those with hundreds of simultaneous participants, either in teams or competing as individuals.
Sport is generally recognized as activities which are based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with the largest major competitions such as the Olympic Games admitting only sports meeting this definition, and other organizations such as the Council of Europe using definitions precluding activities without a physical element from classification as sports. However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee (through ARISF) recognizes both chess and bridge as bona fide sports, and SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognizes five non-physical sports, although limits the amount of mind games which can be admitted as sports.
Sports are usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition, and allow consistent adjudication of the winner. Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first, or by the determination of judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression.
In organized sport, records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news. In addition, sport is a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sports drawing large crowds to venues, and reaching wider audiences through sports broadcasting.
Current sports events · WikiProject Sports





Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The ICC Cricket World Cup is the premier international championship of men's One Day International (ODI) cricket. The event is organised by the sport's governing body, the International Cricket Council (ICC), with preliminary qualification rounds leading up to a finals tournament which is held every four years. The tournament is the world's fourth-largest and fourth-most-viewed sporting event. According to the ICC, it is the most important tournament and the pinnacle of achievement in the sport. The first Cricket World Cup contest was organised in England in 1975. A separate Women's Cricket World Cup has been held every four years since 1973.
The finals of the Cricket World Cup are contested by all ten Test-playing and ODI-playing nations, together with other nations that qualify through the World Cup Qualifier. Australia has been the most successful of the five teams to have won the tournament, taking four titles. The West Indies and India have won twice, while Pakistan and Sri Lanka have each won once.
Eight teams participated in the first tournament: Australia, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, and the West Indies (the six Test nations at the time), together with Sri Lanka and a composite team from East Africa. One notable omission was South Africa, who were banned from international cricket due to apartheid. The tournament was won by the West Indies, who defeated Australia by 17 runs in the final at Lord's Cricket Ground.
The 2011 Cricket World Cup was co-hosted by Bangladesh, India, and Sri Lanka from 19 February to 2 April 2011. 14 countries participated in the tournament. India won the cup by defeating Sri Lanka by 6 wickets in the final in Mumbai on 2 April and became the first team to win the World Cup final on home soil. The next World Cups will be hosted by Australia and New Zealand in 2015, and England and Wales in 2019.



...More selections



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: U.S. Air Force photo/Mike Kaplan; edited by jjron



College football quarterback Shea Smith about to attempt a pass in the 2007 Armed Forces Bowl



...More selections



Read more...









edit  
Selected athlete



James Francis "Jim" Thorpe (Sac and Fox (Sauk): Wa-Tho-Huk, translated as "Bright Path"; May 28, 1888 – March 28, 1953) was an American athlete of mixed Native American and Caucasian ancestry. Considered one of the most versatile athletes of modern sports, he won Olympic gold medals for the 1912 pentathlon and decathlon, played collegiate and professional American football, and also played professional baseball and basketball. He lost his Olympic titles after it was found he was paid for playing two seasons of semi-professional baseball before competing in the Olympics, thus violating the amateurism rules. In 1983, 30 years after his death, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) restored his Olympic medals.
Thorpe grew up in the Sac and Fox nation in Oklahoma. He attended Carlisle Indian Industrial School, where he attracted the attention of Pop Warner. In 1911 he played as running back, defensive back, placekicker and punter, for Carlisle, scoring 25 touchdowns and leading the team to a collegiate championship, and was awarded All-American honors in both 1911 and 1912. Thorpe with the New York Giants baseball team in 1913, he would also play for the Cincinnati Reds and the Boston Braves (now Atlanta Braves), and in the minor leagues before leaving the sport in 1922. He continued playing football during this time, playing professionally for the Canton Bulldogs, which he led to several titles. He played professional sports until age 41, the end of his sports career coinciding with the start of the Great Depression. Thorpe struggled to earn a living after that, working several odd jobs. Thorpe suffered from alcoholism, and lived his last years in failing health and poverty.
In a poll of sports fans conducted by ABC Sports, Thorpe was voted the Greatest Athlete of the Twentieth Century.



...More selections



Read more...







edit  
Selected team



Malmö Fotbollförening, also known simply as Malmö FF, is a Swedish professional association football club based in Malmö. The club is affiliated with Skånes Fotbollförbund and the team play their home games at Swedbank Stadion. The club colours, reflected in their crest and kit, are sky blue and white.
Formed on 24 February 1910, the club have won sixteen national championship titles and fourteen national cup titles, making them the most successful club in Sweden in terms of total trophies won. Malmö FF have also won the highest Swedish league, Allsvenskan, on three occasions when the title of Swedish champions was not decided by the outcome of that league. They were runners-up in the 1979 European Champions Cup final, which they lost 1–0 to English club Nottingham Forest. This made them the only Swedish football club, as of 2012, to have reached the final of the competition, for which the team were awarded the Svenska Dagbladet Gold Medal.
Malmö FF is an open member association and the annual general meeting is the highest policy-making body. The meeting approves the accounts and elects the chairman and board. With an equity of 109.5 million SEK (approximately €12.4 million) the club is the richest football club in Sweden as of 2012.
The club first won Allsvenskan in 1944. Malmö FF were most successful during the 1970s, when they won five Swedish championships and four Svenska Cupen titles. The main rivals of the club are Helsingborgs IF, IFK Göteborg, and historically IFK Malmö. MFF Support is the official fan club of Malmö FF. The club have also been featured in the media, including the football documentaries Blådårar 1 and Blådårar 2.



...More selections



Read more...








edit  
Selected quote






We had nonbelievers all along the way, and I have one thing to say to those nonbelievers: Don't ever underestimate the heart of a champion!     
— Rudy Tomjanovich







...More selections


Read more...






edit  
Did you know...




...that in 1968, Swedish pentathlete Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall became the first Olympian disqualified for drug use, for drinking two beers?
...that golf ball (pictured) design is a real world application of Platonic solids?
...that the 2007 Fiesta Bowl ended on a Statue of Liberty play from Jared Zabransky to Ian Johnson, giving the Boise State Broncos the winning two-point conversion?
...that the French footballer Lucien Laurent scored the first ever World Cup goal, against Mexico in 1930?
...that the Arctic Winter Games are held biennially for athletes from the "circumpolar North"?


Archive




edit  
In this month




February 4, 1925 – The inaugural Nordic World Ski Championships begins in Janské Lázně, Czechoslovakia
February 9, 1895 – Volleyball (pictured), originally called Mintonette, is created by William G. Morgan in Holyoke, Massachusetts
February 20, 1992 – The Premier League, the top division of the English football league system, is founded
February 21, 1948 – NASCAR is founded by a consortium of drivers led by Bill France, Sr.
February 22, 1980 – The United States ice hockey team defeats the Soviet Union team in the Miracle on Ice at the 1980 Winter Olympics

Archive






edit  
Related portals





Events



Asian Games
Commonwealth Games
Olympics
Paralympics





Sports



American football
Association football
Athletics
Australian rules football
Badminton
Baseball
Basketball
Canadian football
Cricket
Cycling
Fencing
Figure skating
Formula One
Golf
Gymnastics
Ice hockey
Horse racing
Martial arts
Motorcycle racing
Motorsport
NASCAR
Professional wrestling
Rugby league
Rugby union
Sailing
Swimming
Tennis
Water sports
Women's football (soccer)





Leagues



A-League
National Basketball Association
National Football League











edit  
Categories


Select ► to view subcategories



▼ Sports


► Categories by sport



► Sport by place



► Sports by type



► Sports by year



► Sports administration



► Sports business



► Sports clothing



► Combination events



► Sports complexes



► Sports controversies



► Sports culture



► Equestrianism



► Sports equipment



► Sports events



► Sports festivals



► Gender and sport



► History of sports



► Sports instruction



► Sports journalism



► Sports-related lists



► Sports museums



► Martial arts by type



► Military sport



► Numbering in sports



► Sports occupations and roles



► Sports organisations



► Physical exercise



► Politics and sports



► Religion and sports



► Sports rules and regulations



► Sports seasons



► Sports science



► Set indices on sports



► Sports by decade of origin



► Sports strategy



► Summer Olympic disciplines



► Sports terminology



► Sports titles



► Sports trophies and awards



► Sports venues



► Works about sports



► Sports stubs












edit  
Things you can do









Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : missing entries at list of sports
Assess : unassessed sports articles
Expand : coverage on women's sports and other sports that are underrepresented on Wikipedia
Photo : requested photographs of sports and games
Stubs : stub-class sports articles
Other : requests for assistance at WikiProject Sports











edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Sports on Wikibooks 
Sports on Wikimedia Commons
Sports on Wikinews 
Sports on Wikiquote 
Sports on Wikisource 
Sports on Wikiversity 
Sports on Wiktionary 


Manuals and books
Images and media
News
Quotations
Texts
Learning resources
Definitions













































Wikipedia's Portals

All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology



Featured portals
About portals


Purge page cache







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Sports&oldid=704595065"					
Categories: Sports and games portalsSports portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisourceWikiversity 



Languages


АдыгабзэAfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAzərbaycancaБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎BoarischBosanskiCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیFrançaisFrysk한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаKurdîКыргызчаLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиMaltiमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語НохчийнNorsk bokmålOromooਪੰਜਾਬੀPicardPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийScotsShqipSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوWest-Vlams中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 12 February 2016, at 11:46.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.212","walltime":"0.385","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2785,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":120882,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":28929,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  287.631      1 -total"," 45.16%  129.897      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 16.86%   48.503      1 Template:Portal_navbar_with_header_2"," 15.11%   43.470      2 Template:Small"," 14.82%   42.640      2 Template:Center"," 13.49%   38.797     19 Template:Clickable_button_2","  8.13%   23.372      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.43%   21.385      1 Template:Portal_content_pages_(header_bar_2)","  7.33%   21.092      1 Portal:Sports/To_Do","  7.16%   20.600      1 Template:Top_icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.069","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1781575,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1188","timestamp":"20170210235422","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":86,"wgHostname":"mw1178"});});
