 







Portal:Biological warfare

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology



Science
 History of science    Philosophy of science    Systems science    Mathematics    Biology    Chemistry    Physics    Earth sciences    Technology   




 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





edit  
Biological warfare Portal



Toxin


Biological warfare (BW), also known as germ warfare, is the use of pathogens such as viruses, bacteria, other disease-causing biological agents, or the toxins produced by them as biological weapons (or bioweapons). There is a clear overlap between biological warfare and chemical warfare, as the use of toxins produced by living organisms is considered under the provisions of both the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention and the Chemical Weapons Convention. Toxins, which are of organic origin, are often called "midspectrum agents". A biological weapon may be intended to kill, incapacitate, or seriously impair a person, group of people, or even an entire population. It may also be defined as the material or defense against such employment. Biological warfare is a military technique that can be used by nation-states or non-national groups. In the latter case, or if a nation-state uses it clandestinely, it may also be considered bioterrorism.The Geneva convention restricts the use of biological and chemical weapons as it is against human rights to use them.


More about Biological warfare...






Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Early thermal weapons were devices or substances used in warfare during the classical and medieval periods (approx 8th century BC until the mid-16th century AD) which used heat or burning action to destroy or damage enemy personnel, fortifications or territories. Incendiary devices were frequently used as projectiles during warfare, particularly during sieges and naval battles; some substances were boiled or heated to inflict damage by scalding or burning. Other substances relied on their chemical properties to inflict burns or damage. These weapons or devices could be used by individuals, manipulated by war machines, or utilised as army strategy. The simplest, and most common, thermal projectiles were boiling water and hot sand, which could be poured over attacking personnel. Other anti-personnel weapons included the use of hot pitch, oil, resin, animal fat and other similar compounds. Smoke was used to confuse or drive off attackers. Substances such as quicklime and sulfur could be toxic and blinding.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: NASA



Vozrozhdeniya Island, also known as Rebirth Island (Russian: Остров Возрождения, Ostrov Vozrozhdeniya), is a former island, now a peninsula, in the Aral Sea. It became a peninsula in 2002, due to ongoing shrinkage of the Aral Sea. It is now shared by Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. Located in the central Aral Sea, Vozrozhdeniya Island was one of the main laboratories and testing sites for the Soviet Union’s Microbiological Warfare Group. In 1948, a top-secret Soviet bioweapons laboratory was established here. Word of the island's danger was further spread by Soviet defectors, including Ken Alibek, the former head of the Soviet Union's bioweapons program. It was here, according to released documents, that anthrax spores and bubonic plague bacilli were made into weapons and stored.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






5 February 2002 - George W. Bush visited the RODS laboratory and used it as a model for a $300 million spending proposal to equip all 50 states with biosurveillance systems to safeguard against bioterrorism
17 February 1942 - Formal report released by War Bureau of Consultants
18 February 1942 - Vigo Ordnance Plant began producing conventional explosives and munitions
20 February 1970 - Richard M. Nixon (pictured) added toxins, regardless of their means of production - be it chemical or biological, to the U.S. ban on biological weapons

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected biological agent



A prion is an infectious agent that is composed primarily of protein. To date, all such agents that have been discovered propagate by transmitting a mis-folded protein state; the protein itself does not self-replicate and the process is dependent on the presence of the polypeptide in the host organism. The mis-folded form of the prion protein has been implicated in a number of diseases in a variety of mammals, including bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE, also known as "mad cow disease") in cattle and Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (CJD) in humans. All known prion diseases affect the structure of the brain or other neural tissue, and all are currently untreatable and are always fatal. In general usage, prion refers to the theoretical unit of infection. In scientific notation, PrPC refers to the endogenous form of prion protein (PrP), which is found in a multitude of tissues, while PrPSc refers to the misfolded form of PrP, that is responsible for the formation of amyloid plaques and neurodegeneration. Prions are hypothesized to infect and propagate by refolding abnormally into a structure which is able to convert normal molecules of the protein into the abnormally structured form. All known prions induce the formation of an amyloid fold, in which the protein polymerises into an aggregate consisting of tightly packed beta sheets. This altered structure is extremely stable and accumulates in infected tissue, causing tissue damage and cell death. This stability means that prions are resistant to denaturation by chemical and physical agents, making disposal and containment of these particles difficult. Proteins showing prion-type behavior are also found in some fungi, which has been useful in helping to understand mammalian prions. Fungal prions, however, do not appear to cause disease in their hosts and may even confer an evolutionary advantage through a form of protein-based inheritance. The word prion is a compound word derived from the initial and final letters of the words proteinaceous and infection.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that Japan's entomological warfare program in China during World War II used plague-infected fleas and cholera-coated flies (cholera pictured) to kill nearly 500,000 people?
... that vaporized hydrogen peroxide was used to disinfect buildings contaminated in the 2001 anthrax attacks in the U.S.?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Biological warfare


► Biological warfare facilities



► Bioterrorism



► Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defense



► Military animals



► Biological weapons










edit  
WikiProjects



Parent projects


Biology
Military history



Related projects


Crime
Terrorism


Task forces


Military technology and engineering task force
Weaponry task force


What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected quote







The United States remains concerned at the threat of proliferation, both of biological warfare expertise and related hardware, from Russia. Russian scientists, many of whom are unemployed or have not been paid for an extended period, may be vulnerable to recruitment by states trying to establish biological warfare programs.
— William Cohen, November 25, 1997







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Topics


Biological warfare (Wikipedia book)

Concepts



Bacteria
Biocontainment
Biological hazard
Bioterrorism
Decontamination
Entomological warfare
Infectious disease
Virus
Toxin
Terrorism





Biological agents






Anthrax
Avian influenza
Botulinum toxin
Brucellosis
Burkholderia pseudomallei
Chlamydophila psittaci
Coxiella burnetii
Ebola
Eastern equine encephalitis virus
Western equine encephalitis virus
Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus
Foodborne illness
Fungi
Glanders
Hantavirus
Henipavirus
Legionnaires' disease
Marburg virus
Mold
Plague
Ricin
Salmonella enterica
Salmonellosis
Salmonella typhi
Smallpox
Staphylococcus
Tularemia
Typhus
Viral hemorrhagic fever





Modern bioterrorist incidents



1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack
2001 anthrax attacks
2003 ricin letters





Prevention and response



Australia Group
Center for Biosecurity
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
Defense Threat Reduction Agency
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control
Global Health Security Initiative
Health Threat Unit
Laboratory Response Network
National Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center
National Science Advisory Board for Biosecurity
United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases









edit  
Featured content



Featured articles: Featured class articles, Biology, Featured class articles, Crime, Featured class articles, Military history, Featured class articles, Terrorism




edit  
Things you can do







Join a related WikiProject: Biology, Crime, Military history, Terrorism
Deletion discussions: listed at Crime, Military, Science, Terrorism
Rate the Unassessed articles in WikiProjects: Biology, Crime, Military history, Terrorism
Requested articles: Toxicological profile, Journal of Forensic Science, Forensic serology
Stubs: Biology, Crime, Military history, Terrorism
See also: Wikipedia:WikiProject Military history/Open tasks








edit  
Related portals













Biology
Biotechnology
Criminal justice
Medicine
Molecular and Cellular Biology
Weapons of mass destruction
War






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Biological warfare on  Wikinews 
Biological warfare on  Wikiquote 
Biological warfare on  Wikibooks 
Biological warfare on  Wikisource 
Biological warfare on  Wiktionary 
Biological warfare on  Wikiversity 
Biological warfare on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media






























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Biological_warfare&oldid=649284457"					
Categories: Biological warfare portalMilitary and war-related portalsPolitics portalsScience portalsBiological warfareHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 21:37.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.228","walltime":"0.461","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2357,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":111188,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":13457,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  322.734      1 -total"," 32.18%  103.848      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 18.38%   59.316      1 Portal:Biological_warfare/Intro"," 17.47%   56.391      1 Portal:Biological_warfare/Intro/Image"," 16.69%   53.867      1 Template:Random_subpage"," 14.73%   47.539      1 Portal:Biological_warfare/Intro/2"," 11.68%   37.683      5 Template:Hlist"," 10.72%   34.601      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar","  9.79%   31.601      1 Portal:Biological_warfare/Selected_picture/Layout","  8.44%   27.248      1 Template:Lang-ru"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.056","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1427357,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1230","timestamp":"20170211041354","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":52,"wgHostname":"mw1246"});});
