 







Portal:American Civil War

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search












 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism











edit  
   The American Civil War Portal




Battlefield monument at Gettysburg


The American Civil War (1861–1865) was a sectional rebellion against the United States of America by the Confederate States, formed of eleven southern slave states' governments which moved to secede from the Union after the 1860 election of Abraham Lincoln as President of the United States. The Union's victory was eventually achieved by leveraging advantages in population, manufacturing and logistics and through a strategic naval blockade denying the Confederacy access to the world's markets.
In many ways, the conflict's central issues – the enslavement of African Americans, the role of constitutional federal government, and the rights of states  – are still not completely resolved. Not surprisingly, the Confederate army's surrender at Appomattox on April 9, 1865 did little to change many Americans' attitudes toward the potential powers of central government. The passage of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments to the Constitution in the years immediately following the war did not change the racial prejudice prevalent among Americans of the day; and the process of Reconstruction did not heal the deeply personal wounds inflicted by four brutal years of war and more than 970,000 casualties – 3 percent of the population, including approximately 560,000 deaths. As a result, controversies affected by the war's unresolved social, political, economic and racial tensions continue to shape contemporary American thought. The causes of the war, the reasons for the outcome, and even the name of the war itself are subjects of much discussion even today.

More about the American Civil War...



Show new selections below (purge)


edit  
   Featured article



Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Ross, c. 1820 – 10 March 1913) was an African-American abolitionist, humanitarian, and Union spy during the U.S. Civil War. After escaping from captivity, she made thirteen missions to rescue over seventy slaves using the network of antislavery activists and safe houses known as the Underground Railroad. She later helped John Brown recruit men for his raid on Harpers Ferry, and in the post-war era struggled for women's suffrage.
Born into slavery in Dorchester County, Maryland, Tubman was beaten and whipped by her various owners as a child. Early in her life, she suffered a traumatic head wound when an irate slave owner threw a heavy metal weight at her, intending to hit another slave. The injury caused disabling seizures, headaches, and powerful visionary and dream activity, and spells of hypersomnia which occurred throughout her entire life. A devout Christian, she ascribed her visions and vivid dreams to premonitions from God.
In 1849, Tubman escaped to Philadelphia, then immediately returned to Maryland to rescue her family. Slowly, one group at a time, she brought relatives with her out of the state, and eventually guided dozens of other slaves to freedom. Traveling by night and in extreme secrecy, Tubman (or "Moses", as she was called) "never lost a passenger". Heavy rewards were offered for many of the people she helped bring away, but no one ever knew it was Harriet Tubman who was helping them. When a far-reaching United States Fugitive Slave Law was passed in 1850, she helped guide fugitives further north into Canada, and helped newly-freed slaves find work.
When the American Civil War began, Tubman worked for the Union Army, first as a cook and nurse, and then as an armed scout and spy. The first woman to lead an armed expedition in the war, she guided the raid on the Combahee River, which liberated more than seven hundred slaves. After the war, she retired to the family home in Auburn, New York, where she cared for her aging parents. She was active in the women's suffrage movement until illness overtook her and she had to be admitted to a home for elderly African-Americans she had helped open years earlier. After she died in 1913, she became an icon of American courage and freedom.
Archive • Create • Talk



edit  
   Grand Parade of the States



California's involvement in the American Civil War included sending gold east, maintaining numerous fortifications, and recruiting or funding a limited number of combat units, including some soldiers who gained notability during the conflict. Republican supporters of Abraham Lincoln took control of the state in 1861, minimizing the influence of the large southern population, leading to a Pacific railroad land grant and authorization to build the Central Pacific as the western half of the transcontinental railroad.
California was settled primarily by Midwestern and Southern farmers, miners and businessmen. Though the southerners tended to favor the Confederacy, the state did not permit slavery, and they remained generally powerless during the war itself. California was home for powerful capitalists who played a significant role in Californian politics through their control of mines, shipping, and finance, and the Republican party. The possibility of splitting off Southern California as a territory (not a state) was rejected by the national government, and the idea was dead by 1861 when a fervour of patriotism swept California after the attack on Fort Sumter.
Archive • Create • Talk



edit  
   Selected biography



David Glasgow Farragut (July 5, 1801–August 14, 1870) was a flag officer of the United States Navy during the American Civil War. He was the first rear admiral, vice admiral, and admiral of the Navy. He is remembered in popular culture for his order at the Battle of Mobile Bay, usually paraphrased: "Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead!".
David Farragut entered the Navy as a midshipman on December 17, 1810. In the War of 1812, when only 12 years old, he was given command of a prize ship taken by USS Essex and brought her safely to port. He was wounded and captured during the cruise of the Essex by HMS Phoebe in Valparaiso Bay, Chile on March 28, 1814, but was exchanged in April 1815.
In command of the West Gulf Blockading Squadron, with his flag on the USS Hartford, in April 1862 he ran past Fort Jackson and Fort St. Philip and the Chalmette, Louisiana batteries to take the city and port of New Orleans, Louisiana on April 29 of that year. Farragut had no real success at Vicksburg; one makeshift Confederate ironclad forced his flotilla of 38 ships to withdraw in July 1862. He was a very aggressive commander but not always cooperative. At the Siege of Port Hudson an uncoordinated attack allowed the Confederates to concentrate on Farragut's flotilla and inflict heavy damage on his warships.
On August 5, 1864, Farragut won a great but costly victory in the Battle of Mobile Bay. The bay was heavily mined (tethered naval mines were known as torpedoes at the time). Farragut ordered his fleet to charge the bay. When the monitor USS Tecumseh struck a mine and sank, the others began to pull back. Farragut could see the ships pulling back from his high perch, lashed to the rigging of his flagship the USS Hartford. "What's the trouble?" was shouted through a trumpet from the flagship to the USS Brooklyn. "Torpedoes!" was shouted back in reply. "Damn the torpedoes!" said Farragut, "Four bells. Captain Drayton, go ahead! Jouett, full speed!" The bulk of the fleet succeeded in entering the bay. Farragut then triumphed over the opposition of heavy batteries in Fort Morgan and Fort Gaines to defeat the squadron of Admiral Franklin Buchanan.
Archive • Create • Talk



edit  
   WikiProjects




Military history WikiProject
American Civil War task force
United States military history task force
United States WikiProject
History WikiProject
Biography WikiProject








edit  
   Selected picture








Credit: Mathew Brady



David Dixon Porter, who served as an admiral for the Union and later as Superintendent of the US Naval Academy
Archive • Create • Talk



edit  
   Did you know...



... that French-designed cannons, manufactured in both the North and the South, were the primary artillery weapons of the American Civil War?
... that United States Army officer James H. Trapier graduated one position below P. G. T. Beauregard in his class at the U.S. Military Academy and later served under him in the American Civil War?
... that Abram S. Piatt was an American Zouave colonel and Civil War general who later built a castle in Logan County, Ohio?

Archive • Create • Talk



edit  
   Categories




▼ American Civil War


► Aftermath of the American Civil War



► American Civil War timelines



► Confederate States of America



► Cultural history of the American Civil War



► Economic history of the American Civil War



► Ulysses S. Grant



► Historiography of the American Civil War



► Jewish Confederates



► American Civil War-related lists



► American Civil War by location



► Military history of the American Civil War



► American Civil War on the National Register of Historic Places



► Northern-born Confederates



► People of the American Civil War



► Political history of the American Civil War



► Secession crisis of 1860–61



► Social history of the American Civil War



► American Civil War stubs



► American Civil War navigational boxes











edit  
   American Civil War topics








v
t
e


American Civil War










 
Origins













Origins
Issues






Timeline leading to the War
Antebellum era
Bleeding Kansas
Border states
Compromise of 1850
Dred Scott v. Sandford
Missouri Compromise
Popular sovereignty
Secession
States' rights
President Lincoln's 75,000 volunteers








Slavery



African Americans
Emancipation Proclamation
Fugitive slave laws
Slave Power
Treatment of slaves in the United States
Uncle Tom's Cabin








Abolitionism



Susan B. Anthony
John Brown
Frederick Douglass
William Lloyd Garrison
Lysander Spooner
George Luther Stearns
Charles Sumner
Harriet Tubman
Underground Railroad


















 



Combatants
Theaters
Campaigns
Battles
States













Combatants




Union (USA)



Army
Navy
Marine Corps
Revenue Cutter Service








Confederacy (CSA)



Army
Navy
Marine Corps











Theaters



Eastern
Western
Lower Seaboard
Trans-Mississippi
Pacific Coast
Union naval blockade








Major Campaigns



Anaconda Plan
Blockade runners of the American Civil War
New Mexico
Jackson's Valley
Peninsula
Northern Virginia
Maryland
Stones River
Vicksburg
Tullahoma
Gettysburg
Morgan's Raid
Bristoe
Knoxville
Red River
Overland
Atlanta
Valley 1864
Bermuda Hundred
Richmond-Petersburg
Franklin–Nashville
Price's Raid
Sherman's March
Carolinas
Appomattox








Major battles



Fort Sumter
1st Bull Run
Wilson's Creek
Fort Donelson
Pea Ridge
Hampton Roads
Shiloh
New Orleans
Corinth
Seven Pines
Seven Days
2nd Bull Run
Antietam
Perryville
Fredericksburg
Stones River
Chancellorsville
Gettysburg
Vicksburg
Chickamauga
Chattanooga
Wilderness
Spotsylvania
Cold Harbor
Atlanta
Mobile Bay
Franklin
Nashville
Five Forks









Involvement (by 
state or territory)




AL
AK
AR
AZ
CA
CO
CT
DC
DE
FL
GA
HI
ID
IL
IN
IA
KS
KY
LA
ME
MD
MA
MI
MN
MS
MO
MT
NE
NV
NH
NJ
NM
NY
NC
ND
OH
OK
OR
PA
RI
SC
SD
TN
TX
UT
VT
VA
WA
WV
WI
WY


















 
Leaders










Confederate




Military



R. H. Anderson
Beauregard
Bragg
Cooper
Early
Ewell
Forrest
Gorgas
Hill
Hood
Jackson
A. S. Johnston
J. E. Johnston
Lee
Longstreet
Morgan
Mosby
Price
Quantrill
Semmes
E. K. Smith
Stuart
Taylor
Wheeler








Civilian



Benjamin
Bocock
Breckinridge
Davis
Hunter
Mallory
Memminger
Seddon
Stephens











Union




Military



Anderson
Buell
Burnside
Butler
Du Pont
Farragut
Foote
Frémont
Grant
Halleck
Hooker
Hunt
McClellan
McDowell
Meade
Meigs
Ord
Pope
D. D. Porter
Rosecrans
Scott
Sheridan
Sherman
Thomas








Civilian



Adams
Chase
Ericsson
Hamlin
Lincoln
Pinkerton
Seward
Stanton
Stevens
Wade
Welles





















 
Aftermath










U.S. Constitution



13th Amendment
14th Amendment
15th Amendment








Reconstruction



Alabama Claims
Carpetbaggers
Freedman's Savings Bank
Freedmen's Bureau
Redeemers
Southern Claims Commission








post-Reconstruction



Disenfranchisement

Black Codes
Jim Crow


Ku Klux Klan
Lost Cause








Cemeteries



Confederate monuments and memorials
National cemeteries
U.S. monuments and memorials








Veterans



Confederate Veteran
Grand Army of the Republic
Old soldiers' homes
United Confederate Veterans


















 



Related topics













Related topics




Military



Balloon Corps
Bushwhacker
Cavalry
Field artillery
Medicine
Military leadership
Naval battles
Official Records
Signal Corps
Turning points
Medal of Honor recipients








Political



Committee on the Conduct of the War
Confederate war finance
Copperheads
Political General
Radical Republicans
Trent Affair
War Democrats








Other topics



Bibliography
Commemoration
Draft Riots
Historical reenactment
Music
Names of the War
Native Americans

Cherokee
Choctaw


Photographers
Rail transport
Supreme Court cases
U.S. Sanitary Commission
Sex in the American Civil War



















edit  
   Things you can do



Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
The West Tennessee Raids
Requested articles 
George Yost Coffin • Charles F. Collins • Andrew Wills Gould • Ebenezer Magoffin • Henry Maury • James Ashby • Albemarle Cady • Henry Boynton Clitz • Benjamin D. Fearing • Moses Harris • Charles A. Hickman • Richard Henry Jackson • John H. King • John Love • Francis Lowe • Peter S. Michie • Thomas Grimke Rhett • James B. Speers • Charles S. Steedman • Battle at Cherokee Station • Battle of Barton's Station • Battle of Camp Davies • Battle of Rome Cross Roads • Requested American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients
Expansion needed  
31st Maine Infantry Regiment • 56th Illinois Infantry • Battle of Amelia Springs • Battle of Berryville • Battle of Blair's Landing • Battle of Boonsborough • Battle of Cabin Creek • Battle of Fort Sumter II • Battle of Guard Hill • Battle of Middle Boggy Depot • Battle of Rice's Station • Battle of Simmon's Bluff • Battle of Summit Point • Battle of Yellow Bayou • Charleston Arsenal • Edenton Bell Battery • Elmira Prison • First Battle of Dalton • Samuel Benton • Blackshear Prison • Orris S. Ferry • Edwin Forbes • Hiram B. Granbury • Henry Thomas Harrison • Ben Hardin Helm • Louis Hébert (colonel) • Benjamin G. Humphreys • Lunsford L. Lomax • Maynard Carbine • Daniel Ruggles • Thomas W. Sherman • Hezekiah G. Spruill • Smith Percussion Carbine • Edward C. Walthall • Confederate States Secretary of the Navy • Confederate States Secretary of the Treasury • Delaware in the American Civil War • Ironclad Board • United States Military Railroad • Kansas in the American Civil War • Salisbury National Cemetery • Other American Civil War battle stubs • Other American Civil War stubs

Images needed  
Battle of Lone Jack • James S. Rains • Preston Pond, Jr. • Melancthon Smith • John Donelson Martin
Merging needed  
1st Regiment New York Mounted Rifles and 7th Regiment New York Volunteer Cavalry
Citations needed  
Add an article here!
Translation needed 
Add an article here!

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/American Civil War}}







Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Shortcuts to this page: Portal:ACW • P:ACW


Purge server cache





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:American_Civil_War&oldid=708319364"					
Categories: American Civil War portalMilitary and war-related portalsUnited States portalsAmerican Civil WarHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschFrançaisItalianoქართულიРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 4 March 2016, at 22:23.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.304","walltime":"0.441","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3040,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":308073,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":43903,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":15,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  309.097      1 -total"," 25.22%   77.941      1 Portal:American_Civil_War/American_Civil_War_topics"," 24.31%   75.136      1 Template:American_Civil_War"," 23.14%   71.533      1 Template:Navbox_with_collapsible_groups"," 16.29%   50.344     10 Portal:American_Civil_War/box-header"," 14.68%   45.386     10 Template:Box-header"," 13.25%   40.943      9 Template:Navbox"," 12.08%   37.354      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar"," 12.01%   37.121      4 Template:Hlist"," 10.49%   32.436     30 Template:Icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.078","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2675519,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1266","timestamp":"20170210173802","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1262"});});
