 







Portal:World War I

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





edit  
The World War I Portal



World War I (abbreviated WWI), also known as the First World War, the Great War and The War to End War was a global military conflict that took place mostly in Europe between 1914 and 1918. The main combatants were the Allied Powers, led by France, the Russian Empire, the British Empire, Serbia, Belgium, and later Italy, Romania and the United States, who fought against the Central Powers: Austria-Hungary, the German Empire, Bulgaria, and the Ottoman Empire (present day Turkey).
Much of the fighting in World War I took place along the Western Front, within a system of opposing manned trenches and fortifications (separated by a "no man's land") running from the North Sea to the border of Switzerland. On the Eastern Front, the vast eastern plains and limited rail network prevented a trench warfare stalemate from developing, although the scale of the conflict was just as large. Hostilities also occurred on and under the sea and — for the first time — in the air. More than nine million soldiers died on the various battlefields, and millions more civilians perished.
The war caused the disintegration of four empires: the Austro-Hungarian, German, Ottoman, and Russian. Germany lost its overseas empire, and states such as Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia were created, or recreated, as in the cases of Lithuania and Poland. This contributed to a decisive break with the world order that had emerged after the Napoleonic Wars, which was modified by the mid-19th century’s nationalistic revolutions. The results of World War I would also be important factors in the development of World War II just over two decades later.
More about World War I...



Show new selections


edit  
Selected event


The Battle of Verdun, fought from 21 February to 19 December 1916 around the city of Verdun-sur-Meuse in northeast France, was one of the most important battles in World War I on the Western Front. The battle was fought between the German and French armies.
It resulted in more than a quarter of a million deaths and about half a million wounded. It was the longest battle and one of the bloodiest in World War I. In both France and Germany it has come to represent the horrors of war, similar to the Somme in Britain.
The battle popularised the phrase "Ils ne passeront pas" ("They shall not pass"), uttered by Robert Nivelle, but often incorrectly attributed to Pétain.

Read more...
Suggest • More selected events...



edit  
Selected equipment



The Tank was one of the most significant innovations of the First World War. The fighting conditions on the Western Front during the war prompted the British Army to begin research into a self-propelled vehicle which could cross trenches, crush barbed wire, and would be impervious to fire from machine-guns. Having already seen a Rolls-Royce Armoured Car used by Royal Naval Air Service in 1914, and aware of schemes prompted by Major Ernest Swinton to create a tracked fighting vehicle, First Lord of the Admiralty Winston Churchill sponsored the Landships Committee to oversee development of this new weapon. The Landships Committee created the first successful prototype tank, nicknamed Little Willie, which was tested by the British Army in September 1915. Although initially termed landships by the Admiralty, the initial vehicles were colloquially referred to as water carriers, later shortened to tanks, to preserve secrecy. The word tank was used to give the workers the impression they were constructing tracked water containers for the British army in Mesopotamia, and the name became official in December 1915.
Read more...
Suggest • More selected equipment...



edit  
Selected quote


"I look upon him as the greatest criminal known for having plunged the world into war."

— George V of the United Kingdom, November 1918

Suggest • More selected quotes...





edit  
Selected picture





The evacuation of W Beach, Helles, on 7 January, 1916.


Photo credit: Lt. Ernest Brooks.

Suggest • More selected pictures...



edit  
Selected biography



Ferdinand Foch OM GCB (October 2, 1851 – March 20, 1929) was a French soldier, military educator and author credited for possessing "the most original and subtle mind in the French Army." He served as general in the French Army during World War I and made Marshal of France in its final year, 1918.
He was chosen as supreme commander of the allied armies during World War I, on March 26, 1918, five days after the start of the Spring Offensive, the final attempt by Germany to win the war. He served until November 11, 1918, when he accepted the German Surrender.
He advocated harsh peace terms that would make Germany unable to ever pose a threat to France again. His word after the Treaty of Versailles, “This is not a peace. It is an armistice for 20 years”, would prove prophetic.
Read more...
Suggest • More selected biographies...



edit  
Did you know...?




...that the Royal Air Force ordered 1,291 De Havilland DH.10s (pictured) for use in World War I, but they were only used in a single bombing mission before the armistice ended the fighting?


...that German sailor Max Reichpietsch, who served on the battleship SMS Friedrich der Große, was executed by firing squad in 1917 for anti-war agitation in the German Navy?


...that David B. Barkley (pictured), who drowned in the Meuse River, France after completing a scouting mission behind enemy lines during World War I, was the U.S. Army's first Hispanic Medal of Honor recipient?


...that the Lake Tanganyika passenger ferry MV Liemba began its life as a German warship in World War I, spent eight years on the bottom of the lake, and later portrayed the Empress Luisa in the film The African Queen?

More...





edit  
Major topics




Theatres
Main events
Specific articles
Participants
See also



Prelude:
• Causes
• Sarajevo assassination
• July Ultimatum
Main theatres:
• Western Front
• Eastern Front
• Italian Front
• Middle Eastern Theatre
• Balkan Theatre
• Atlantic Theatre
Other theatres:
• African Theatre
• Pacific Theatre
General timeline:
• WWI timeline


1914:
• German invasion of Belgium
• Battle of Liège
• Battle of Tannenberg
• Invasion of Serbia
• First Battle of the Marne
• First Battle of Arras
• Battle of Sarikamish
1915:
• Mesopotamian campaign
• Gallipoli Campaign
• Italian Campaign
• Conquest of Serbia
1916:
• Battle of Verdun
• Battle of the Somme
• Battle of Jutland
• Brusilov Offensive
• Conquest of Romania
• Great Arab Revolt
1917:
• Second Battle of Arras
• Battle of Passchendaele
• Battle of Caporetto
• Capture of Baghdad
• Conquest of Palestine
1918:
• Spring Offensive
• Hundred Days Offensive
• Meuse-Argonne Offensive
• Armistice with Germany
• Armistice with Ottoman Empire


• Military engagements
• Naval warfare
• Air warfare
• Cryptography
• People
• Poison gas
• Railways
• Technology
• Trench warfare
• Partition of Ottoman Empire
Civilian impact and atrocities:
• Armenian Genocide
• Assyrian genocide
• Greek genocide
Aftermath:
• Aftermath
• Casualties
• Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
• Paris Peace Conference
• Treaty of Versailles
• Treaty of St. Germain
• Treaty of Neuilly
• Treaty of Trianon
• Treaty of Sèvres
• Treaty of Lausanne
• League of Nations


Entente Powers
•  Russian Empire
•  French
•  British Empire
  »  United Kingdom
  »  Australia
  »  Canada
  »  India
  »  New Zealand
  »  South Africa
•  Italy
•  Romania
•  United States
•  Serbia
•  Portugal
•  Republic of China
•  Japan
•  Belgium
•  Montenegro
•  Greece
•  Armenia
• more…
Central Powers
•  German Empire
•  Austria-Hungary
•  Ottoman Empire
•  Bulgaria


• A war to end all wars
• Female roles
• Literature
• Total war
• Spanish flu
• Veterans
Contemporaneous conflicts:
• First Balkan War (1912-13)
• Second Balkan War (1913)
• Maritz Rebellion (1914-15)
• Easter Rising (1916)
• Pancho Villa Expedition (1916-17)
• Russian Revolution (1917)
• Russian Civil War (1917–21)
• Finnish Civil War (1918)
• North Russia Intervention (1918–19)
• Greater Poland Uprising (1918–19)
• Polish–Soviet War (1919-21)
• Irish War of Independence also known as the Anglo-Irish War (1919–21)
• Turkish War of Independence also known as the Greco-Turkish War (1919–22)
• Irish Civil War (1922–23)









edit  
Things you can do


From the World War I task force of the Military history WikiProject:

Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Adriatic Campaign of World War I • Atlantic U-boat campaign of World War I • Balkans Campaign (World War I) • Battle of Belleau Wood • Battle of Chunuk Bair • Battle of Gully Ravine • Battle of Pozières • Battle of Sari Bair • Eastern Front (World War I) • Italian Front (World War I) • Robert Nivelle • Serbian Campaign of World War I • South-West Africa Campaign • Landing at Suvla Bay • Max von Boehn (General) • Johannes von Eben • Naval operations in the Dardanelles Campaign • Naval warfare in the Mediterranean during World War I
Requested articles 
Bombardment of Samogneux • Srem offensive (1914) • Otto von Lauenstein de • Georg Fuchs (General) de • Götz von König de • Black Sea Campaign (World War I)
Expansion needed  
Asian and Pacific theatre of World War I • Battle of Behobeho • Battle of Cambrai (1918) • Battle of Caporetto • Battle of Courtrai (1918) • Battle of Dodoma • Battle of Dutumi • Battle of Kahe • Battle of Kiawe Bridge • Battle of Kibata (1916) • Battle of Kibata (1917) • Battle of Kidodi • Battle of Kilosa • Battle of Kimbaramba • Battle of Krithia Vineyard • Battle of Lukigura • Battle of Mpotona • Battle of Nambanje • Battle of Mahiwa • Battle of Matamondo • Battle of Mlali • Battle of Morogoro • Battle of Mkalamo • Battle of Mouquet Farm • Battle of Narungombe • Battle of the Nek • Battle of Njinjo • Occupation of German Samoa • Battle of Ramadi • Battle of Rumbo • Samarrah Offensive • Battle of Scimitar Hill • Battle of Sharqat • Battle of St. Quentin Canal • Battle of Utete • Battle of Wami • Battle of the Wazzir • Demilitarisation • First Battle of Villers-Bretonneux • Second Battle of Krithia • Second Battle of Kut • Second Battle of the Isonzo • Third Battle of Krithia • Third Battle of the Isonzo • Fifth Battle of the Isonzo • Seventh Battle of the Isonzo • Ninth Battle of the Isonzo • Tenth Battle of the Isonzo • Operation Marne-Rheims • Joseph B. Sanborn • Robert Kosch de
Images needed  
Add an article here!
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Add an article here!
Translation needed 
Schlacht in den Karpaten (Large battle in the Carpathians)

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/World War I}}






edit  
Categories




▼ World War I


► World War I by country



► Aftermath of World War I



► Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War



► Aviation in World War I



► World War I casualties



► Centenary of the outbreak of World War I



► Centenary of World War I



► World War I crimes



► Cultural history of World War I



► Economic history of World War I



► World War I espionage



► Events cancelled due to World War I



► Historiography of World War I



► Home front during World War I



► Intelligence of World War I



► World War I legislation



► World War I-related lists



► Military logistics of World War I



► Military equipment of World War I



► Military animals of World War I



► Military medicine in World War I



► Military operations of World War I



► Military units and formations of World War I



► Naval history of World War I



► People of World War I



► Politics of World War I



► World War I propaganda



► Science and technology during World War I



► World War I sites



► Theatres of World War I



► Works about World War I



► Wikipedia books on World War I



► World War I stubs










edit  
Featured content





 A.E.J. Collins
 Arthur Ernest Percival
 Arthur Henry Cobby
 Battle of Arras (1917)
 Battleship
 Blair Anderson Wark
 Dreadnought
 Edgar Towner
 Edwin Taylor Pollock
 Finnish Civil War
 Francis Harvey


 Frank Hubert McNamara
 George Jones (RAAF officer)
 German occupation of Luxembourg in World War I
 Harry Murray
 HMS Royal Oak (1914)
 Issy Smith
 James Newland
 John Whittle
 Kaiser class battleship
 List of First World War Victoria Cross recipients


 Pre-dreadnought battleship
 Prince Louis of Battenberg
 Raymond Brownell
 Richard Williams (RAAF officer)
 Second Ostend Raid
 Stanley Goble
 Ronald Niel Stuart
 Thomas Crisp
 Western Front (World War I)
 William Bostock
 Władysław Sikorski









edit  
Associated Wikimedia




World War I on Wikiquote    
World War I on Wikibooks    
World War I on Wikisource    
World War I on Wiktionary    
World War I on Wikimedia Commons


Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images

























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:World_War_I&oldid=649231670"					
Categories: Military and war-related portalsWorld War IHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةČeštinaDeutschFrançaisItalianoעבריתMagyarNederlandsPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСрпски / srpskiไทยTürkçeУкраїнська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:29.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.292","walltime":"1.643","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3289,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":123045,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":15518,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00% 1463.530      1 -total"," 31.82%  465.755      1 Portal:World_War_I/Did_you_know"," 30.39%  444.749      5 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 26.60%  389.259      4 Template:Random_subpage","  8.64%  126.394      1 Portal:World_War_I/Wikimedia_for_World_War_I","  8.35%  122.178      1 Portal:World_War_I/Categories","  8.21%  120.203      1 Portal:World_War_I/Did_you_know/17","  7.20%  105.411      1 Portal:World_War_I/Featured_content","  6.39%   93.451      1 Portal:World_War_I/Did_you_know/9","  5.95%   87.009      1 Portal:World_War_I/Did_you_know/13"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.051","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1456107,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1266","timestamp":"20170211010808","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1271"});});
