 







Portal:World War II

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search







 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





edit  
The World War II Portal



World War II, or the Second World War, was a global military conflict. It began as the joining of what had initially been two separate conflicts, with the first beginning in Asia in 1937 (the Second Sino-Japanese War) and the other beginning in Europe in 1939 (the German and Soviet invasion of Poland).
The war split the majority of the world's nations into two opposing military alliances: the Allies and the Axis. It involved the mobilization of over 100 million military personnel, making it the most widespread war in history, and placed the participants in a state of "total war", which erased the distinction between civil and military resources and resulted in the complete activation of a nation's economic, industrial, and scientific capabilities for the purposes of the war effort. Over 70 million people, the majority of them civilians, were killed, making it the deadliest conflict in human history.
The Allies won the war, and as a result, the Soviet Union and the United States emerged as the world's leading superpowers. This set the stage for the Cold War, which lasted for the next 45 years. The United Nations was formed in the hope of preventing another such conflict. The self-determination spawned by the war accelerated decolonization movements in Asia and Africa, while Europe itself began moving toward integration.
More about World War II...




Show new selections


edit  
Featured article



The United States Marine Corps (USMC) is a branch of the United States armed forces responsible for providing force projection from the sea,using the mobility of the U.S. Navy to rapidly deliver combined-arms task forces and is one of seven uniformed services. Administratively within the Department of the Navy, operationally the U.S. Marine Corps acts as a separate branch of the military, often working closely with US Naval forces for training, transportation, and logistic purposes.Originally organized as the Continental Marines on November 10, 1775 as naval infantry, the Marine Corps has evolved in its mission with changing military doctrine and American foreign policy. The Marine Corps has served in every American armed conflict including the Revolutionary War. It attained prominence in the 20th century when its theories and practice of amphibious warfare proved prescient and ultimately formed the cornerstone of the Pacific campaign of World War II.By the mid 20th century, the Marine Corps had become the dominant theorist and practitioner of amphibious warfare. Its ability to respond rapidly to regional crises has made it, and continues to make it, an important body in the implementation and execution of American foreign policy.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...








edit  
Selected equipment



Australian Hospital Ship (AHS) Centaur was a hospital ship active during World War II, which was attacked and sunk by a Japanese submarine in 1943. Of the 332 medical personnel and crew aboard, 268 died. The Scottish-built vessel was launched in 1924 as a combination passenger liner/freighter and operated a trade route between Western Australia and Singapore via the island of Java, carrying passengers, cargo, and livestock. Centaur served in both civilian and military capabilities and during her career was involved in towing a damaged Japanese whale-chaser and recovering German survivors of the engagement between HMAS Sydney and Kormoran.Following her early-1943 conversion to a hospital ship, Centaur served with the Second Australian Imperial Force. Before dawn on 14 May 1943, while on her second voyage, Centaur was torpedoed and sunk by a Japanese submarine off North Stradbroke Island, Queensland. The majority of the 332 aboard died in the attack and the 64 survivors had to wait for 36 hours before they were rescued. The attack resulted in public outrage as it was considered to be a war crime.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...








edit  
Selected battle


December, 1941. Soviet troops in winter gear supported by tanks take on the Germans in the counter-attack.
The Battle of Moscow (Russian: Битва за Москву, Romanized: Bitva za Moskvu, German: Schlacht um Moskau) is the name given the Nazi strategic offensive Operation Typhoon, and a series of Soviet strategic and smaller operations executed during the defense of Moscow, and the subsequent Soviet counter-offensive that occurred between October 1941 and January 1942 on the Eastern Front during World War II as a response to the Hitler's strategy that considered Moscow, capital of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) and the largest Soviet city, to be the primary military and political objective for Axis forces in their invasion of the Soviet Union. A separate operational German plan was codenamed Operation Wotan was included in the concluding phase of the German offensive.In August 1941, German forces captured the city of Smolensk, an important stronghold on the road to Moscow. Smolensk was historically considered as the "key" to Moscow because it controlled a landbridge located between the Dvina, Dnieper, and several other rivers, allowing for a fast advance by ground troops without the necessity of building major bridges across wide rivers.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...










edit  
Selected picture















Credit: Eva Braun



Benito Mussolini of Fascist Italy (left) and Adolf Hitler of Nazi Germany, two of the Axis leaders of World War II.




...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected biography


Aleksandr Mikhaylovich Vasilevsky , September 30, 1895 – December 5, 1977) was a Soviet military commander, promoted to Marshal of the Soviet Union in 1943. He was the Soviet Chief of the General Staff and Deputy Minister of Defense during World War II, as well as Minister of Defense from 1949 to 1953. As the Chief of the General Staff, Vasilevsky was responsible for the planning and coordination of almost all decisive Soviet offensives, from the Stalingrad counteroffensive to the assault on East Prussia and Königsberg.Vasilevsky started his military career during the First World War, earning the rank of captain by 1917. At the beginning of the October Revolution and the Civil War he was conscripted into the Red Army, taking part in the Polish–Soviet War. After the war, he quickly rose through the ranks, becoming a regimental commander by 1930. In this position, he showed great skill in the organization and training of his troops. Vasilevsky's talent did not go unnoticed, and in 1931 he was appointed a member of the Directorate of Military Training. In 1937, following Stalin's Great Purge, he was promoted to General Staff officer.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...








edit  
Did you know...?




...that the Polish Second Army was the second major formation of the Peoples' Army of Poland fighting alongside the Soviet Union in the Second World War?


...that U-256 was one of seven German World War II submarines converted into anti-aircraft submarines, and the last German submarine to leave Brest, France?


...that future Maltese diplomat Arvid Pardo was successively detained by Fascist Italian, Nazi German, and Soviet authorities between 1940 and 1945?




...Archive/Nominations



Read more...








edit  
Categories




▼ World War II


► World War II by country



► Lists of World War II topics



► World War II-related lists



► Aftermath of World War II



► Aviation in World War II



► Battles and operations of World War II



► Chronology of World War II



► Collaboration during World War II



► Cultural history of World War II



► Military deception during World War II



► Economic history of World War II



► Friendly fire incidents of World War II



► Historiography of World War II



► Intelligence of World War II



► World War II legislation



► Military logistics of World War II



► World War II and the media



► World War II media



► Military animals of World War II



► Military discipline and World War II



► Military equipment of World War II



► Military medicine in World War II



► Military units and formations of World War II



► Naval history of World War II



► World War II non-governmental organizations



► People of World War II



► Politics of World War II



► Pope Pius XII and World War II



► World War II propaganda



► World War II resistance movements



► Science and technology during World War II



► World War II sites



► Sociology of World War II



► Unfree labor during World War II



► World War II crimes



► World War II naval ships



► World War II stubs











edit  
Selected quote


"Yesterday, December 7, 1941 — a date which will live in infamy — the United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan."

— Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 8 December 1941

Suggest • More Quotes...



edit  
Topics




World War II


Theatres
Main events
Specific articles
Participants



Prelude
• Causes
• in Europe
• in Asia
Main theatres
• Europe
• Eastern Europe
• China
• Mediterranean, Middle East and Africa
• Asia and the Pacific
• Atlantic
General timeline
• Timeline



1939
• Invasion of Poland
• Winter War
1940
• Invasion of Denmark/Norway
• Battle of France
• Battle of Britain
1941
• Invasion of the Soviet Union
• Battle of Moscow
• Attack on Pearl Harbor
1942
• Battle of Midway
• Battle of Stalingrad
• Second Battle of El Alamein
1943
• Battle of Kursk
• Guadalcanal campaign
• Invasion of Italy
1944
• Battle of Normandy
• Operation Bagration
• Battle of Leyte Gulf
• Operation Market Garden
• Battle of the Bulge
1945
• Battle of Iwo Jima
• Battle of Okinawa
• Battle of Berlin
• End in Europe
• Hiroshima and Nagasaki
• Surrender of Japan
• more...



• Blitzkrieg
• Cryptography
• Equipment
• Home Front
• Military engagements
• Production
• Resistance
• Technology
Civilian impact and atrocities
• Nanking Massacre
• Holocaust
• Siege of Leningrad
• Bataan Death March
• Dutch famine of 1944
• Bengal famine of 1943
• Hiroshima and Nagasaki
• Unit 731
• Strategic bombings
• Comfort women
• Allied war crimes
• German war crimes
• Japanese war crimes
Aftermath
• Effects
• Casualties
• Expulsion of Germans
• Denazification
• Cold War
• Universal Declaration of Human Rights
• Decline of the British Empire



The Allies
•  Australia
•  Belgium
•  Brazil
•  British India
•  Canada
•  Czechoslovakia
•  Egypt
•  El Salvador
•  France (after June 16, 1940:  Free France)
•  Greece
•  Netherlands
•  New Zealand
•  Norway
•  Philippines
•  Poland
•  Republic of China
•  South Africa
•  Soviet Union
•  United Kingdom
•  United States
•  Yugoslavia
more...
The Axis
•  Bulgaria
•  NDH
•  Japan
•  Finland
•  Vichy France
•  Hungary
•  Italy
•  Germany
•  Romania
•  Thailand
•  Slovakia
more...








edit  
Things you can do


From the World War II task force of the Military history WikiProject:

Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Battle of Kiev (1943) • Battle of Ko Chang • Colditz Castle • Spiritual national defence
Requested articles 
A Force • Battle of Uhtua-Kiestinki • Battles of Repola-Rukajärvi • Battle of Porlammi • Battle of Siiranmäki • Battle of Tuulos • Battle of Łuck • Battle of Równe • Battle of Włodzimierz Wołyński • Battle of Lubartów • Battle of Miedniki • Battle of Jodła • Francis Blanchain • Shinshou Draenger • Christer Lyst Hansen • Holocaust slave labor litigation • Ove Kampman • League for Combat Policy • Frederick Charles Lough • Julien Meline • Operation Rayon • Operation Bigot • Operation Mittelmeer • Operation Richard • Otto Program • Martin Poppel • Roehm's Avengers • Dorothy Tartiere • Poul Bruun • Raoul Boulanger • Serge Asher-Ravanel • Battle of West Ukraine (1941) • Battle of Zunyi • Free Dutch Forces (draft, please assist) • Operation Safari • Liberation of Denmark (currently redirect) • Operation Vado (currently redirect) • German torpedo boat Albatros • Battle of Sidon (1941)
Expansion needed  
Princess Irene Brigade • Battle of Bay of Viipuri • Demilitarisation; Martha Desrumeaux • Mochitsura Hashimoto • Operation Cascade • Operation Tan No. 2 • Burma Area Army • Battle of Courland • Battle of Voronezh (1943) • First Battle of Kharkov • Race to Berlin • Marie Fourcade • Victor Strydonck de Burkel • Donald Blakeslee • Operation Nordwind • Battle of Skerki Bank • Michael Sinclair (soldier) • Battle of Maastricht • Battle of Zeeland • Operation Waterfall • Petsamo–Kirkenes Offensive • American-British-Dutch-Australian Command • more
Images needed  
Twelfth Army (United Kingdom) • 4th Airborne Division (United Kingdom) • 5th Airborne Division (United Kingdom) • XVI Corps (United Kingdom) • Battle of Dakar • Battle of the Lys (1940) • German invasion of Luxembourg • Battle of Zeeland • Battle of the Grebbeberg • A. H. Vedel • Franco-Thai War • Battle of Ko Chang • Switzerland during the World Wars
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Add an article here!
Translation needed 
de:Josef Meisinger • nl:Type 5 Na-To • pt:Tobrouk (militar)

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/World War II}}






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




World War II on Wikiquote    
World War II on Wikibooks    
World War II on Wikisource    
World War II on Wiktionary    
World War II on Wikimedia Commons


Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images

























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:World_War_II&oldid=748544167"					
Categories: Military and war-related portalsWorld War IIHidden categories: Pages with missing filesFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةБългарскиČeštinaDeutschΕλληνικάEsperantoفارسیFrançaisFryskGalegoItalianoעבריתLatviešuLëtzebuergeschMagyarNederlandsNorsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийSvenskaТатарча/tatarçaУкраїнськаTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 November 2016, at 19:41.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.216","walltime":"0.412","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3967,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":139578,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":21316,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":5,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  260.500      1 -total"," 37.05%   96.503      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 21.42%   55.789      1 Portal:World_War_II/Topics"," 18.77%   48.908     32 Template:Flagicon"," 11.26%   29.345      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar"," 10.67%   27.793      1 Portal:World_War_II/Selected_battle/Layout"," 10.46%   27.238      1 Template:Hlist","  9.54%   24.864      1 Portal:World_War_II/Did_you_know","  8.93%   23.252      3 Template:Random_subpage","  7.94%   20.673      2 Template:Lang"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.044","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1511828,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1255","timestamp":"20170213012457","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":53,"wgHostname":"mw1242"});});
