 







Portal:Fish

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology






edit  
The fish portal



Fish are aquatic vertebrates that are typically cold-blooded; covered with scales, and equipped with two sets of paired fins and several unpaired fins. Fish are abundant in the sea and in freshwaters, with species being known from mountain streams (e.g., char and gudgeon) as well as in the deepest depths of the ocean (e.g., gulpers and anglerfish). They are of tremendous importance as food for people around the world, being either collected from the wild (see fishing) or being farmed in much the same way as cattle or chickens (see aquaculture). Fish are also exploited for recreation, through angling and fishkeeping, and fish are commonly exhibited in public aquaria. Through the ages, many cultures have featured fish in their legends and myths, from the "great fish" that swallowed Jonah the Prophet through to the ever-popular half-human, half-fish mermaid.


More about fish...







View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



Fugu is a Japanese dish prepared from the meat of pufferfish (normally species of Takifugu, Lagocephalus, or Sphoeroides) or porcupinefish of the genus Diodon. Because pufferfish is lethally poisonous if prepared incorrectly, fugu has become one of the most celebrated and notorious dishes in Japanese cuisine.
Pufferfish contains lethal amounts of the poison tetrodotoxin in the internal organs, especially the liver and gonads, and also the skin. Therefore, only specially licensed chefs can prepare and sell fugu to the public, and the consumption of the liver and ovaries is forbidden. But because small amounts of the poison give a special desired sensation on the tongue, these parts are considered the most delicious by some gourmets. Every year a number of people die because they underestimate the amount of poison in the consumed fish parts. The poison paralyzes the muscles while the victim stays fully conscious, and eventually dies from asphyxiation. There is currently no antidote, and the standard medical approach is to try to support the respiratory and circulatory system until the effect of the poison wears off.



...Archive



Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected fish



Asian arowana refers to several varieties of freshwater fish in the genus Scleropages. Native to Southeast Asia, Asian arowanas inhabit blackwater rivers, slow-moving waters flowing through forested swamps and wetlands. Adults feed on other fish, while juveniles feed on insects.
These popular aquarium fish have special cultural significance in areas influenced by Chinese culture. The name dragon fish stems from their resemblance to the Chinese dragon. This popularity has had both positive and negative effects on their status as endangered species.



...Archive



Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Photo and upload by André Karwath (User:Aka)



The paradise fish or paradise gourami (Macropodus opercularis), are small freshwater labyrinth fish found in ditches and paddy fields in East Asia, ranging from the Korean Peninsula to Northern Vietnam. They were one of the first ornamental fishes available to western aquarium keepers, having been imported to Europe as early as the 1800s.



...Archive



Nominations



Read more...









edit  
Did you know...





...that the Loricariidae or the suckermouth catfish from Central and South America is the largest family of catfish, with almost 700 species and new species being described each year?


...that the king of herrings (Regalecus glesne), an oarfish of the family Regalecidae, is the world's longest bony fish with a length of 41 feet (12 m)?
...that the yoyo loach (Botia almorhae) from India and Pakistan is named for their black and white patterns, which often can be seen to spell "yoyo" especially in younger specimens?


...that studies of the inshore marine fish small-scale whiting (Sillago parvisquamis) suggest the female starts life smaller than the male, but grows faster and is larger than the male within two years?
... that the cream-spotted cardinalfish is the sole member of the new genus Ozichthys?




...Archive









edit  
The Fish Quiz


The Fish Quiz is a friendly quiz competition designed to test your general knowledge of fish. The current game is Fish Quiz Tournament X. You can read more and join the game here.






edit  
Selected quote



"You know when they have a fishing show on TV? They catch the fish and then let it go. They don't want to eat the fish, they just want to make it late for something."


---Mitch Hedberg




Nominations...



...Archive







edit  
Categories


Fish • Edible fish • Extinct fish • Individual fish • Fictional fish • Fish by region • Fish common names • Fish diseases • Fisheries science • Fishing • Fishkeeping • Ichthyology • Mythical fish • Venomous fish • Freshwater fish







edit  
Lists



List of fish common names
List of fish families
List of freshwater aquarium fish species
List of marine aquarium fish species

For more lists, please see here






edit  
WikiProjects


WikiProject Fishes
WikiProject Aquarium Fishes
WikiProject Sharks
WikiProject Fishing






edit  
The Fish Portal: Mini Edition


The Mini Edition of the Fish Portal is available for you to use on your wikipedia user page or talk page. It uses minimum space but retains many crucial features of the portal. To use it, place {{Portal:Fish/Mini portal}} on the designated page. See here for an example of the mini portal on a user page.








edit  
Topics




Ichthyology :
Fish anatomy, Fish development, Fish diseases, Fish locomotion, Fish migration, Ichthyology terms, Limnology, Marine biology, Meristics, Oceanography, Spawning


Taxa :
Chondrichthyes, Osteichthyes, Actinopterygii, Sarcopterygii, Chondrostei, Neopterygii, Holostei, Teleostei, Osteoglossomorpha, Elopomorpha, Clupeomorpha, Ostariophysi, Cyclosquamata, Scopelomorpha, Lampridiomorpha, Polymyxiomorpha, Paracanthopterygii, Acanthopterygii


Fishery :
Angling, Aquaculture, Fishing, Fish as food, Fish farming, Fish market, Fisheries management, Fishing industry, Overfishing


Food fish :
Anchovy, Barb, Basa fish, Bass, Carp, Catfish, Cod, Eel, Flatfish, Goby, Gourami, Haddock, Herring, Mackerel, Oily fish, Perch, Pollock, Salmon, Snapper[disambiguation needed], Snakehead, Sturgeon, Tilapia, Trout, Tuna, Whitefish


Fishkeeping :
Aeration, Aquarium, Fish food, Marine aquarium, Reef aquarium, Brackish water aquarium


Ornamental fish :
Angelfish(freshwater), Angelfish(marine), Barb, Blenny, Boxfish, Butterflyfish, Cichlid, Chromis, Clownfish, Corydoras, Damsel, Danio, Discus, Goby, Goldfish, Gourami, Koi, Lionfish[disambiguation needed], Live-bearer, Loach, Mbuna, Rainbowfish, Pufferfish, Rasbora, Seahorse, Siamese fighting fish, Suckermouth catfish, Tang, Tetra, Triggerfish, Wrasse


Others :
Amphibious fish, Electric fish, Deep sea fish, Ichthys, Mermaid, Prehistoric fish, Ray, Shark, Walking fish








edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks you can do, as organized by the WikiProject Fishes, if you are interested, please sign up on the project page.


Copyedit:
Expand: Barb (fish species), fishing industry, Greater Argentine, Gold Spot Pleco, Fish anatomy, Black goby, Poecilia caucana, Arrowtooth flounder, Paiute cutthroat trout, Serrasalmus, Pygocentrus, Greater pipefish, Lesser pipefish
Develop featured article:
Peer review: Spring cavefish, Convict cichlid, Hoplosternum littorale, Shortnose sturgeon
Article requests: Missing topics about Fish, Devonian Fish Project article requests, Jörg Freyhof
Picture request: Phreatobius cisternarum, Glandulocaudinae, Chaca (genus), Firewood catfish, Cetopsidae, Cranoglanis, Scoloplax, Nematogenys inermis, Austroglanis, Astroblepus, Pseudopimelodidae, Chiapas catfish (Upload any non-copyrighted fish images to the appropriate section of Wikimedia Commons)
Identify images: Identify and move the images to the appropriate section of Wikimedia Commons
Collaboration: Pacific jack mackerel (edit | talk | history | protect | delete | links | watch | logs | views)
Assessment: Assess the quality and importance of fish articles
Other: Expand Fish anatomy and Fish locomotion, Create articles for the missing superfamilies and families in the Perciformes. Merge GLAM/ARKive donated texts into articles about endangered species.


If you have any question, comment or suggestion, please discussion here.



view • edit • discuss • history • watch






edit  
Related portals










Biology
Fishing
Marine Life
Sharks








edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Fish on Wikinews    
Fish on Wikiquote    
Fish on Wikibooks    
Fish on Wikisource    
Fish on Wikicommons
Fish on Wiktionary


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Images
Dictionary

























Wikispecies


Species directory



















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Fish&oldid=747668980"					
Categories: Fish portalFishScience portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةFrançaisItalianoLietuviųMagyarNederlandsPortuguêsТатарча/tatarçaУкраїнська 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 November 2016, at 18:00.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.208","walltime":"0.508","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1809,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":83312,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5776,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  397.178      1 -total"," 26.78%  106.380      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 11.73%   46.584      1 Portal:Fish/Did_you_know","  7.64%   30.364      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.05%   28.011      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.95%   27.611      3 Template:Category_handler","  6.59%   26.166      1 Template:Convert","  5.99%   23.788      1 Portal:Fish/The_Fish_Quiz","  5.91%   23.493     11 Portal:Fish/box-header","  5.78%   22.956     11 Portal:Fish/box-footer"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.053","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2493070,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1268","timestamp":"20170130102418","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":53,"wgHostname":"mw1237"});});
