 







Portal:Mammals

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








edit  
The mammals portal



Mammals (class Mammalia) are vertebrate animals characterized by the presence of sweat glands, including milk producing sweat glands, and by the presence of: hair, three middle ear bones used in hearing, and a neocortex region in the brain. Mammals, other than the monotremes, give birth to live young instead of laying eggs. They also possess specialized teeth and use a placenta in the ontogeny. The mammalian brain regulates endothermic and circulatory systems, including a four-chambered heart. Mammals encompass approximately 5,400 species, ranging in size from the Bumblebee Bat, (30-40mm), to the Blue Whale, (33,000mm), distributed in about 1,200 genera, 153 families, and 29 orders, though this varies by classification scheme.
Most mammals belong to the placental group. The four largest orders within the placental mammals are Rodentia (mice, rats, and other small, gnawing mammals), Chiroptera (bats), Carnivora (dogs, cats, bears, and other mammals that primarily eat meat), and Cetartiodactyla (including numerous herbivore species, such as deer, sheep, goats, and buffalos, plus whales).
Phylogenetically, Mammalia is defined as all descendants of the most recent common ancestor of monotremes (e.g., echidnas and platypuses) and therian mammals (marsupials and placentals). This means that some extinct groups of "mammals" are not members of the crown group Mammalia, even though most of them have all the characteristics that traditionally would have classified them as mammals. These "mammals" are now usually placed in the unranked clade Mammaliaformes.
The mammalian line of descent diverged from the sauropsid line at the end of the Carboniferous period. The sauropsids would evolve into modern-day reptiles and birds, while the synapsid branch led to mammals. The first true mammals appeared in the Jurassic period. Modern mammalian orders appeared in the Palaeocene and Eocene epochs of the Palaeogene period.
 Mammals ...



View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The Blue Whale (Balaenoptera musculus) is a marine mammal belonging to the suborder of baleen whales. At up to 33 metres (110 ft) in length and 181 metric tonnes (200 short tons) or more in weight, it is believed to be the largest animal to have ever lived, though some fragmentary dinosaur discoveries such as the colossal Amphicoelias fragillimus may challenge this long-held belief. Long and slender, the Blue Whale's body can be various shades of bluish-gray. There are at least three distinct subspecies: B. m. musculus of the north Atlantic and north Pacific, B. m. intermedia, of the Southern Ocean and B. m. brevicauda (also known as the Pygmy Blue Whale) found in the Indian Ocean and South Pacific Ocean. B. m. indica found in the Indian Ocean, may be another subspecies. As with other baleen whales, its diet consists mainly of small crustaceans known as krill, as well as small fish and squid. lue Whales were abundant in nearly all oceans until the beginning of the twentieth century. For over 40 years they were hunted almost to extinction by whalers until protected by the international community in 1966. A 2002 report estimated there were 5,000 to 12,000 Blue Whales worldwide located in at least five groups. More recent research into the Pygmy subspecies suggests this may be an underestimate. Before whaling the largest population was in the Antarctic, numbering approximately 239,000 (range 202,000 to 311,000). There remain only much smaller (around 2,000) concentrations in each of the North-East Pacific, Antarctic, and Indian Ocean groups. There are two more groups in the North Atlantic and at least two in the Southern Hemisphere.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Did you know?




...that one burrow of the eastern chipmunk (pictured) was found to contain 390 acorns?
.. that the Hare Indian dog, now extinct, was not known to bark, but puppies learned to imitate the barking of other dogs when the breed was introduced to Europe?
... that the rodents Thomasomys ucucha from Ecuador and Oxymycterus hucucha from Bolivia were both named after the local Quechua word for "mouse"?
...that the incisors of blesmols are visible even when their mouths are closed?
... that the pebble-mound mice of northern Australia construct mounds of stones around their burrows up to 10 m2 in area?
... that the stationmaster of the Kinokawa train station in Kinokawa, Japan is a cat named Tama?

Archive – Start a new article...





edit  
Selected picture








Credit: User:Diliff



The White-fronted Capuchin (Cebus albifrons), is a New World primate, endemic to six different countries in South America: Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Peru.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Scientific classification






Kingdom→ Animalia   Phylum→ Chordata   Subphylum→ Vertebrata   Superclass→ Tetrapoda   (unranked)→ Amniota   Class→ Mammalia





Subclasses and Infraclasses

Subclass †Allotheria*
Subclass Prototheria
Subclass Theria

Infraclass †Trituberculata
Infraclass Metatheria
Infraclass Eutheria





* Member of a haplogroup and not any of its subclades.
† Taxon is extinct.














edit  
Topics




Monotremata
Didelphimorphia
Paucituberculata
Microbiotheria
Notoryctemorphia
Dasyuromorphia
Peramelemorphia
Diprotodontia
Afrosoricida
Macroscelidea
Tubulidentata
Hyracoidea
Proboscidea
Sirenia
Cingulata
Pilosa
Scandentia
Dermoptera
Primates
Rodentia
Lagomorpha
Erinaceomorpha
Soricomorpha
Chiroptera
Pholidota
Carnivora
Perissodactyla
Artiodactyla
Cetacea






edit  
Quality content


Featured articles


 Ambondro mahabo
 Baleen whale
 Beagle
 Bharattherium
 Blue whale
 Bluebuck
 Bobcat
 Columbian mammoth
 Cougar
 Cryptoprocta spelea
 Dermotherium
 Elephant
 Elk
 European hare
 Evolution of lemurs
 Ferugliotheriidae
 Ferugliotherium
 Fin whale
 Flocke
 Fossa (animal)
 Giant anteater
 Giant eland
 Giant otter
 Giraffe
 Camas pocket gopher
 Guinea pig
 Hartebeest
 Hippopotamus
 Humpback whale
 Impala
 Jaguar
 Javan rhinoceros
 Killer whale
 Knut (polar bear)
 Koala
 Lavanify
 Lion
 Marcus Ward Lyon Jr.
 Meerkat Manor
 Meerkat Manor: The Story Begins
 Miniopterus aelleni
 Miniopterus griveaudi
 Myotis alcathoe
 Myotis escalerai
 Paraceratherium
 Pennatomys
 Pinniped
 Pipistrellus raceyi
 Platypus
 Plesiorycteropus
 Primate
 Pygmy hippopotamus
 Quagga
 Raccoon
 Right whale
 Rodent
 Salanoia durrelli
 Sea otter
 Sei whale
 Sheep
 Short-beaked echidna
 Smilodon
 Springbok
 Sumatran rhinoceros
 Tammar wallaby
 Tasmanian devil
 Thylacine
 Transandinomys
 Triaenops menamena
 Woolly mammoth


Featured lists


 List of cetacean species
 List of mammals of Florida


Featured pictures


 File:Cheetahs on the Edge (Director's Cut).ogv
 File:Koala climbing tree.jpg
 File:Macropus rufogriseus rufogriseus Bruny.jpg
 File:Vombatus ursinus -Maria Island National Park.jpg


Good articles


 Addax
 Alpine ibex
 Argentodites
 Bare-tailed woolly opossum
 Kitti's hog-nosed bat
 Bay duiker
 Billy (pygmy hippo)
 Binky (polar bear)
 Black-tailed jackrabbit
 Black wildebeest
 Blackbuck
 Blue duiker
 Blue wildebeest
 Bohor reedbuck
 Boreray sheep
 Bottlenose dolphin
 Bovidae
 California sea lion
 Campbell's dwarf hamster
 Canidae
 Capybara
 Cat
 Cheetah
 Common eland
 Common vampire bat
 Coyote
 Dibatag
 Dimetrodon
 Dire wolf
 Djungarian hamster
 Dromedary
 Dugong
 Dusky dolphin
 Eastern mole
 Equus (genus)
 European polecat
 Evolution of cetaceans
 Ferret-legging
 Fisher (animal)
 Four-horned antelope
 Golden jackal
 Herdwick
 Hipposideros besaoka
 History of the domestic sheep
 Horse
 Jacob sheep
 Japanese serow
 Jungle cat
 Klipspringer
 LACM 149371
 Large Black pig
 Least weasel
 Lesser kudu
 Malagasy hippopotamus
 Mammal
 Marine mammal
 Marsh shrew
 Mesozoic mammals of Madagascar
 Microgale macpheei
 Miniopterus brachytragos
 Miniopterus mahafaliensis
 Miniopterus manavi
 Miniopterus tao
 Miniopterus zapfei
 Monk seal
 Mountain nyala
 Muskrat
 Narwhal
 Neoromicia malagasyensis
 Nilgai
 North American river otter
 North Ronaldsay sheep
 Nyala
 Ocepeia
 Okapi
 Oribi
 Paratheria (mammals)
 Pilot whale
 Polar bear
 Porpoise
 Pudú
 Pygmy three-toed sloth
 Quoll
 Ralphie the Buffalo
 Red fox
 Red panda
 River dolphin
 Royal antelope
 Scimitar oryx
 Serval
 Shetland sheep
 Sitatunga
 Six-banded armadillo
 Sperm whale
 Spotted hyena
 Steller's sea cow
 Swift fox
 TNM 02067
 Tamaraw
 Tiger
 Trapalcotherium
 Triaenops goodmani
 Tupaia miocenica
 UA 8699
 Veratalpa
 Walrus
 Waterbuck
 Whale
 Wildebeest
 William Windsor (goat)
 Gray wolf








edit  
WikiProjects




Biology
Tree of Life

Prokaryotes and Protists
Plants
Arthropods
Cephalopods
Gastropods
Fishes
Amphibians and Reptiles
Birds
Mammals

WikiProject Dogs
WikiProject Dog breeds
WikiProject Rodents
WikiProject Cats
WikiProject Equine
WikiProject Horse breeds
WikiProject Cetaceans
WikiProject Primates
WikiProject Monotremes and Marsupials


Viruses



A complete list of scientific WikiProjects can be found here. See also Wikispecies, a Wikimedia project dedicated to classification of biological species.






edit  
Things to do



Articles needing attention

Biology pages needing attention (cleanup, expansion, wikification, expert needed, etc.)
Help Wikipedia by uploading required images
Help Wikipedia by creating pages or redirects
Help Wikipedia by expanding mammal-related stub articles.





edit  
Categories



Mammals


Mammals by location • Lists of mammals • Mammal anatomy • Extinct mammals • Mammal hybrids • Mammalogy • Mammal stubs





edit  
Related portals





Biology • Agriculture and Agronomy • Animals  • Arthropods • Amphibians and Reptiles • Biotechnology • Birds • Cats • Cetaceans • Dinosaurs • Dogs • Extinct and Endangered Species • Evolutionary biology • Fish • Marine life • Medicine • Metabolism • Mind and Brain • Molecular and Cellular Biology • Neuroscience • Plants • Primates • Sharks • Turtles








edit  
Wikimedia





Mammals on Wikinews    
Mammals on Wikiquote    
Mammals on Wikibooks    
Mammals on Wikisource    
Mammals on Wiktionary    
Mammals on Wikimedia Commons
Mammals on Wikispecies    


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images & Media
Species directory
































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals











 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Mammals&oldid=682676016"					
Categories: MammalsMammals portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةCatalàΕλληνικάEuskaraفارسیFrançaisItalianoעבריתNederlandsPortuguês 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 September 2015, at 07:44.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.484","walltime":"0.588","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2630,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":161857,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":66119,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  369.867      1 -total"," 59.87%  221.447      1 Portal:Mammals/Quality_content"," 57.98%  214.439      4 Template:Columns-list"," 50.90%  188.257    187 Template:Icon"," 12.45%   46.059      3 Template:Random_portal_component","  6.80%   25.151      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.77%   25.052      1 Portal:Mammals/Intro","  6.31%   23.323      1 Portal:Mammals/Intro/Image","  5.93%   21.936      1 Template:Top_icon","  4.98%   18.412      1 Template:Random_subpage"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.179","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1949799,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1163","timestamp":"20170211175559","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":93,"wgHostname":"mw1186"});});
