 







Portal:Solar System

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology










edit  
The Solar System Portal





The Solar System consists of the Sun and the other celestial objects gravitationally bound to it: the eight planets, their moons, five currently identified dwarf planets and their seven known moons, and billions of small bodies. This last category includes asteroids, Kuiper belt objects, comets, meteoroids and interplanetary dust. In broad terms, the charted regions of the Solar System consist of the Sun, four terrestrial inner planets, an asteroid belt composed of small rocky bodies, four gas giant outer planets, and a second belt, called the Kuiper belt, composed of icy objects. Beyond the Kuiper belt lies the scattered disc, the heliopause, and ultimately the hypothetical Oort cloud. In order of their distances from the Sun, the planets are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Six of the eight planets are in turn orbited by natural satellites, usually termed "moons" after Earth's Moon, and each of the outer planets is encircled by planetary rings of dust and other particles. All the planets except Earth are named after gods and goddesses from Greco-Roman mythology. The five dwarf planets are Pluto, Makemake, and Haumea, the three largest known Kuiper belt objects; Ceres, the largest object in the asteroid belt; and Eris, the largest known object in the scattered disc.

More about the Solar System...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Earth /ɜːrθ/ is the third planet from the Sun and is the largest of the terrestrial planets in the Solar System, in both diameter and mass. Home to the human species, it is also referred to as "the Earth", "Planet Earth", "Gaia", "Terra", "the World", and "the Blue Planet".
The Earth is the first planet known to have liquid water on the surface and is the only place in the universe known to harbor life. Earth has a magnetic field? that, together with a primarily nitrogen-oxygen atmosphere, protects the surface from radiation that is harmful to life. The atmosphere also serves as a shield that causes smaller meteors to burn up before they strike the surface.
The Earth formed around 4.57 billion years ago and its only known natural satellite, the Moon, began orbiting it around 4.53 billion years ago. At present, the Earth orbits the Sun once for every roughly 366.26 times it rotates about its axis (which is equal to 365.26 solar days). The Earth's axis of rotation is tilted 23.5° (away from the perpendicular to its orbital plane), producing seasonal variations on the planet's surface.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Philipp Salzgeber



Comet Hale-Bopp sails across the sky in the vicinity of Pazin in Istria, Croatia. To the lower right of the comet the Andromeda Galaxy is also faintly visible. The comet was visible to the naked eye for a record 18 months, twice as long as the Great Comet of 1811. At perihelion, it shone brighter than any star in the sky except Sirius, and its two tails stretched 30-40 degrees across the sky. The passage of Hale-Bopp was notable also for inciting a degree of panic about comets not seen for decades. Rumours that the comet was being followed by an alien spacecraft gained remarkable currency, and inspired a mass suicide among followers of the Heaven's Gate cult.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Did you know...




...that New York's Panther Mountain (pictured) was the site of a prehistoric meteor crash?


...that the Beethoven crater in the Beethoven quadrangle on Mercury is the eleventh largest named impact crater in the Solar System?


...that the planet Mars appears red primarily because of a ubiquitous layer of dust containing nanophase ferric oxides?


...that the 1997 volcanic eruption of Pillan Patera on Jupiter's moon Io was the largest effusive eruption ever witnessed?


...that the south pole of the planet Mercury is located in the Bach quadrangle?


...that the Sweden Solar System is currently the world's largest scale model of the solar system?


...that the dominant feature in the Shakespeare quadrangle is the 1300 km wide Caloris Planitia, the largest and best preserved impact basin on Mercury observed by the spacecraft Mariner 10?


...that the nearly circular shape of Lukanga Swamp, a wetland covering 2,600 km² in Central Province, Zambia, has led to speculation that it may be a crater formed by the impact of a meteorite?



... that the first engineering analysis of a manned mission to Mars (artist's conception pictured) was made by Wernher von Braun in 1948, which included ten ships with seventy crewmembers?


...that water vapor is probably present in the tenuous atmosphere of Mercury, being brought to the planet by comets?


...that the Tagish Lake meteorite originally came from a part of the asteroid belt which existed when our solar system was being formed?


...that the trans-Neptunian object Eris (formerly known as 2003 UB313) is native to a distant region of our solar system known as the scattered disc?




...Archive/Nominations



Read more...












edit  
In the news

Wikinews Space portal


January 18: Former NASA astronaut Eugene Cernan dies aged 82
October 3: Twelve-year journey of Rosetta ends; spacecraft crashes into comet
July 6: Final panel added to China's FAST radio telescope
July 6: NASA's Juno spacecraft enters Jupiter orbit
May 9: NASA releases first topographical map of Mercury
October 31: NASA releases complete image of Pluto's crescent
October 9: After Mars, NASA announces water ice on Pluto
October 1: NASA announces water on Mars
July 17: NASA's New Horizons space probe performs first close planetary flyby of Pluto
January 30: Scientists find ancient solar system in Milky Way galaxy
January 11: SpaceX launches fifth resupply rocket to International Space Station
January 10: Researchers say light signal from space suggests merging black holes







edit  
Related portals









Space
Star
Cosmology







Uranus
Jupiter
Mars








edit  
Major categories












Solar System














Celestial mechanics
Comets
...in fiction













Minor planets
Moons
Planetary missions













Planets...
Sun
Surface feature nomenclature...








edit  
Related WikiProjects















Star
Spaceflight
Moon













Space
X-ray astronomy
Mars













Astronomy
Science
Jupiter








edit  
Associated Wikimedia















Wiktionary
Wikibooks
Commons


Definition
Text
Images










edit  
Major topics

































Solar System: Planets (Definition ˑ Planetary habitability ˑ Terrestrial planets ˑ Gas giants ˑ Rings) ˑ Dwarf planets (Plutoid) ˑ Moons ˑ Exploration ˑ Colonization ˑ Discovery timeline

Sun: Sunspot ˑ Solar wind ˑ Solar flare ˑ Solar eclipse

Mercury: Geology ˑ Exploration (Mariner 10 ˑ MESSENGER ˑ BepiColombo) ˑ Transit
Venus: Geology ˑ Atmosphere ˑ Exploration (Venera ˑ Mariner program 2/5/10 ˑ Pioneer ˑ Vega 1/2ˑ Magellan ˑ Venus Express) ˑ Transit
Earth: History ˑ Geology ˑ Geography ˑ Atmosphere ˑ Rotation

Moon: Geology ˑ Selenography ˑ Atmosphere ˑ Exploration (Luna ˑ Apollo 8/11) ˑ Orbit ˑ Lunar eclipse


Mars: Moons (Phobos ˑ Deimos) ˑ Geology ˑ Geography ˑ Atmosphere ˑ Exploration (Mariner ˑ Mars ˑ Viking 1/2 ˑ Pathfinder ˑ MER)
Ceres: Exploration (Dawn)
Jupiter: Moons (Amalthea, Io ˑ Europa ˑ Ganymede ˑ Callisto) ˑ Rings ˑ Atmosphere ˑ Magnetosphere ˑ Exploration (Pioneer 10/11 ˑ Voyager 1/2 ˑ Ulysses ˑ Cassini ˑ Galileo ˑ New Horizons)
Saturn: Moons (Mimas ˑ Enceladus ˑ Tethys ˑ Dione ˑ Rhea ˑ Titan ˑ Iapetus) ˑ Rings ˑ Exploration (Pioneer 11 ˑ Voyager 1/2 ˑ Cassini–Huygens)
Uranus: Moons (Miranda ˑ Ariel ˑ Umbriel ˑ Titania ˑ Oberon) ˑ Rings ˑ Exploration (Voyager 2)
Neptune: Moons (Triton) ˑ Rings ˑ Exploration (Voyager 2)
Planets beyond Neptune
Pluto: Moons (Charon, Nix, Hydra, Kerberos, Styx) ˑ Exploration (New Horizons)
Haumea: Moons (Hi'iaka, Namaka)
Makemake
Eris: Dysnomia
Small bodies: Meteoroids ˑ Asteroids (Asteroid belt) ˑ Centaurs ˑ TNOs (Kuiper belt ˑ Scattered disc ˑ Oort cloud) ˑ Comets (Hale-Bopp ˑ Halley's ˑ Hyakutake ˑ Shoemaker-Levy 9)


Formation and evolution of the Solar System: History of Solar System formation and evolution hypotheses ˑ Nebular hypothesis
See Also: Featured content ˑ Featured topic ˑ Good articles ˑ List of objects

Bold articles are featured.
Italicized articles are on dwarf planets or major moons.






edit  
Things you can do



Contribute to...

...articles on the planets to help make them featured articles.

Expand...

...astronomy stubs.

Join...

...WikiProjects related to this subject.

WikiProject Solar System requests






Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : See Requested articles
Assess : To help us assess the quality and importance of Solar System articles, please see: Category:Unassessed Solar System articles and Category:Unknown-importance Solar System articles.
Infobox : See Category:Solar System articles needing infoboxes
Maintain : See Category:Solar System articles needing attention
Photo : See Category:Wikipedia requested photographs of astronomical bodies
Stubs : See Category:Stub-Class Solar System articles and Category:Astronomy stubs




















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Solar_System&oldid=746248915"					
Categories: Solar SystemAstronomy portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةAzərbaycancaΕλληνικάEspañolEuskaraفارسیBahasa IndonesiaItalianoქართულიमराठीBahasa MelayuPortuguêsRomânăSlovenčinaSoomaaligaไทยTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 26 October 2016, at 06:06.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.240","walltime":"0.350","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1633,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":78988,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6328,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  171.709      1 -total"," 20.97%   36.002      2 Template:Random_portal_component"," 15.48%   26.584      1 Portal:Solar_System/Solar_System_topics"," 14.77%   25.354      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 14.13%   24.270      1 Portal:Solar_System/Solar_System_topics/imagebox"," 12.94%   22.214      1 Template:Top_icon"," 10.56%   18.134      1 Portal:Solar_System/Did_you_know"," 10.06%   17.282      1 Template:Category_handler","  9.79%   16.812      1 Template:Purge","  9.14%   15.701      3 Template:Random_subpage"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.036","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1420818,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1209","timestamp":"20170212094330","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":58,"wgHostname":"mw1253"});});
