 







Portal:Volcanoes

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Volcanoes Portal



A volcano is an opening, or rupture, in a planet's surface or crust, which allows hot, molten rock, ash, and gases to escape from below the surface. Violent explosive eruptions from such vents often produce craters or calderas and coat extensive areas in volcanic ash, while the lava from comparatively gentle effusive eruptions may eventually form large plains, cones or mountains.
Volcanoes are generally found where tectonic plates are pulled apart or come together. A mid-oceanic ridge, such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, hosts volcanoes caused by divergent tectonic plates pulling apart; the Pacific Ring of Fire contains many volcanoes caused by convergent tectonic plates coming together. By contrast, volcanoes are not commonly created at transform boundaries, where two tectonic plates slide past one another.
Volcanoes can be caused by mantle plumes. The resulting hotspots, for example at Hawaii, can occur far from plate boundaries. Hotspot volcanoes are also found elsewhere in the solar system, especially on rocky planets and moons. Intraplate volcanoes can also form where there is stretching and thinning of the Earth's crust, as in the Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field and the Rio Grande Rift in North America and the European Rhine Graben with its Eifel volcanoes.
More about volcanoes...




Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



The volcanoes of Indonesia are a dominating feature of the geography of Indonesia. The volcanoes formed due to subduction zones between the Eurasian plate and the Indo-Australian plate. Some of the volcanoes are notable for their eruptions, for instance, Krakatau for its global effects in 1883, Lake Toba for its supervolcanic eruption estimated to have occurred 74,000 Before Present which was responsible for six years of volcanic winter, and Mount Tambora for the most violent eruption in recorded history in 1815.
Volcanoes in Indonesia are a part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. The 150 entries in the list below are grouped into six geographical regions, four of which belong to the volcanoes of the Sunda Arc trench system. The remaining two groups are volcanoes of Halmahera, including its surrounding volcanic islands, and volcanoes of Sulawesi and the Sangihe Islands. The latter group is in one volcanic arc together with the Philippine volcanoes.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...








edit  
Selected biography


Howel Williams (1898-1980) was a noted American geologist and volcanologist. He was born of Welsh parents in Liverpool, England, on October 12, 1898. He received a BA in geography in 1923 and an MA in archaeology in 1924 from Liverpool University. He studied geology at the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London. In 1926 he moved to the University of California at Berkeley in 1926. In 1928 he was awarded the degree of D.Sc. from the University of Liverpool and published his first papers on the geology of various California volcanic regions.
He published many studies on the volcanoes of California, but is most noted for his "The Geology of Crater Lake National Park" in which he recognized the nature of the collapse of the crater and extended the work to develop the principles of volcanic caldera formation. He did extensive early work on the geology of Central America (often sketch-mapping from the windows of second-class buses), and of the Galapagos Islands. In Latin America, Williams put to good use his early background in archeology. For instance, he used petrographic techniques to trace the origin of stone used in the giant Olmec sculptures of La Venta, Tabasco Mexico.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Did you know






... that the 60 million years old Carmelo Formation (pictured) is made out of thousands of layers of volcanic pebbles, sandstone and mudstone with fossils?
... that one of the activities that are possible at the Nevado de Toluca National Park is scuba diving in the two volcanic crater lakes?
... that the Popocatépetl volcano occasionally dumps ash on the municipality of Ozumba, Mexico?
... that in August 2001, the Galileo spacecraft flew through the sulfur dioxide gas plume of the Ionian volcano Thor?
... that the Garibaldi Volcanic Belt in southwestern British Columbia is the site of Canada's largest recorded Holocene explosive eruption 2,350 years ago at the Mount Meager massif?
... that most of the recent volcanism in New Zealand has been along the line of the Taupo Volcanic Zone and the Kermadec island arc?
... that the asphalt volcano is a rare underwater volcano composed of asphalt and erupting petroleum and methane instead of lava?
... that eruptions from Mahogany Mountain, a caldera volcano, produced rock formations in Leslie Gulch over 15 million years ago?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Volcanoes topics



Core topics: Volcano  •  Volcanology  •  Igneous petrology  •  Lava  •  Magma  •  Decade Volcanoes  •  List of volcanoes  •  Plate tectonics  •  Hotspot
Types of volcanoes: Fissure vent  •  Shield volcano  •  Lava dome  •  Cinder cone  •  Stratovolcano  •  Supervolcano  •  Submarine volcano  •  Subglacial volcano  •  Mud volcano
Types of eruptions: (Overview)  •  Strombolian  •  Vulcanian  •  Peléan  •  Hawaiian  •  Surtseyan  •  Plinian  •  Submarine  •  Subglacial  •  Phreatic




edit  
Related portals










Earth sciences
Seamounts
Geography
Atmospheric sciences








edit  
Selected picture















Credit: Mila Zinkova



The small town of Ortahisar in Cappadocia, Turkey. The area is covered in soft volcanic rock, which villagers have carved out to form houses, monasteries, and other structures.




...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected quote



"I have seen so many eruptions in the last 20 years that I don't care if I die tomorrow."
— Maurice Krafft, on the day before he was killed by a pyroclastic flow on Unzen Volcano, Japan, 1991.




...Archive



More...








edit  
Project collaboration






The current Project collaboration is Mount Shasta.



The project collaboration is a drive to improve our coverage of an important volcano-related topic. Once the article has been improved significantly, a new collaboration is chosen. Please improve the article any way you can.




edit  
WikiProjects




WikiProject Volcanoes
WikiProject Seamounts
WikiProject Mountains





edit  
Categories






▼ Volcanoes


► Volcanoes by continent



► Volcanoes by country



► Volcanoes by geochronology



► Volcanoes by mountain range



► Volcanoes by status



► Volcanoes by highest known Volcanic Explosivity Index of eruption



► Lists of volcanoes



► Atolls



► Complex volcanoes



► Decade Volcanoes



► Diatremes



► Extraterrestrial volcanoes



► Films about volcanoes



► Fissure vents



► Hotspot volcanoes



► Volcanic islands



► Lava domes



► Mud volcanoes



► Parasitic cones



► Polygenetic volcanoes



► Pyroclastic shields



► Ridge volcanoes



► Rift volcanoes



► Shield volcanoes



► Volcanic soils



► Stratovolcanoes



► Subduction volcanoes



► Subglacial mounds



► Subglacial volcanoes



► Submarine volcanoes



► Supervolcanoes



► Volcanic belts



► Volcanic calderas



► Volcanic cones



► Volcanic craters



► Volcanic fields



► Volcanic groups



► Volcanic Seven Summits



► Wikipedia categories named after volcanoes







▼ Volcanology


► Volcanologists



► Hotspots (geology)



► Hydrothermal vents



► Monogenetic volcanoes



► Parasitic cones



► Polygenetic volcanoes



► Subduction zone volcanology



► Tephra



► Volcanic belts



► Volcanic eruption types



► Volcanic events



► Volcanic landforms



► Volcanic rocks



► Volcanism



► Volcano observatories



► Volcanoes



► Volcanology of Venus



► Volcanology stubs












edit  
What you can do




Add the {{WikiProject Volcanoes}} message box to talk pages of articles within the scope of this project, including appropriate assessments, if needed.
Add appropriate volcano type categories to articles, and verify the accuracy of any existing categories. See the section "Categorization" below.
Add {{infobox mountain}} to articles if needed and missing, and add volcano-related fields to existing infoboxes if these are missing.
Expand volcano articles which are stubs, especially by adding photos and (most importantly) proper references.
Help improve articles related to Hawaiian and Canadian volcanism by joining the Hawaiian and Canadian workgroups.
Improve some of the project's most visible articles.






edit  
Featured work and other approved content



Featured articles: 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens  •  2007–2008 Nazko earthquakes  •  Amchitka  •  Armero tragedy  •  Craters of the Moon National Monument and Preserve  •  Cerro Azul (Chile volcano)  •  David A. Johnston  •  Enceladus (moon)  •  Geology of the Lassen volcanic area  •  Io (moon)  •  Loihi Seamount  •  Mauna Kea  •  Mauna Loa  •  Metacomet Ridge  •  Mono-Inyo Craters  •  Mount Cayley volcanic field  •  Mount St. Helens  •  Mount Tambora  •  Nevado del Ruiz  •  Surtsey  •  The Volcano (British Columbia)  •  Triton (moon)  •  Upper and Lower Table Rock  •  Volcanism on Io  •  Volcano (South Park)  •  Yellowstone National Park
Featured lists: List of volcanoes in Indonesia  •  List of volcanoes in the Hawaiian – Emperor seamount chain  •  List of largest volcanic eruptions
Featured pictures: There are currently 43 volcano-related Featured pictures. A full gallery can be seen here.

Good articles: Abyssal plain  •  Amak Volcano  •  Anahim hotspot  •  Axial Seamount  •  Ben Nevis  •  Bowie Seamount  •  Crater Lake  •  Davidson Seamount  •  Ferdinandea  •  Gareloi Volcano  •  Geyser  •  Glacier Peak  •  Hawaii hotspot  •  Hualālai  •  Kohala (mountain)  •  Lake Toba  •  Minoan eruption  •  Mount Adams (Washington)  •  Mount Bailey  •  Mount Baker  •  Mount Cleveland (Alaska)  •  Mount Edziza volcanic complex  •  Mount Garibaldi  •  Mount Hood  •  Mount Kenya  •  Mount Rainier  •  Mount Redoubt  •  Mount Tehama  •  Mount Thielsen  •  Mount Vesuvius  •  Peter I Island  •  Roxy Ann Peak  •  Rùm  •  Sakurajima  •  Sangay  •  Silverthrone Caldera  •  Staffa  •  Types of volcanic eruptions  •  Volcanic ash  •  Weh Island  •  Wells Gray-Clearwater volcanic field  •  Yamsay Mountain
Valued pictures: A gallery of volcano-related valued pictures can be seen here.




edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species












What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Volcanoes&oldid=698065887"					
Categories: VolcanoesPhysical science portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikiversity 



Languages


العربيةDeutschFrançaisOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPortuguêsРусский中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 January 2016, at 20:25.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.236","walltime":"0.335","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1930,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":84428,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":7333,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":10,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  200.982      1 -total"," 39.21%   78.803      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 13.61%   27.353      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.42%   22.952      1 Template:Top_icon","  9.37%   18.827      1 Template:Purge","  8.56%   17.211      1 Template:Category_handler","  8.18%   16.447     14 Template:Box-header","  7.34%   14.745      1 Portal:Volcanoes/Quotes/Layout","  6.66%   13.384      9 Portal:Volcanoes/box-header","  6.49%   13.035      1 Portal:Volcanoes/Featured_work"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.052","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1445097,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1161","timestamp":"20170212044605","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":73,"wgHostname":"mw1243"});});
