 







Portal:Feminism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





Politics
Anarchism
Communism
Conservatism
Fascism
Feminism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Men's rights
Political science
Right-wing populism
Socialism




edit  
The Feminism Portal



Feminism involves various movements, theories and philosophies which are concerned with the issue of gender inequality, race inequality and humanitarian rights, that advocate eliminating the oppression of women, and that campaign for women's rights and interests. The history of feminism can be divided into three waves. The first wave was in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, the second was in the 1960s and 1970s and the third extends from the 1990s to the present. Feminist theory emerged from these feminist movements. It manifests through a variety of disciplines such as feminist geography, feminist history and feminist literary criticism.
Feminism has altered predominant perspectives in a wide range of areas within Western society, ranging from culture to law. Feminist activists have campaigned for women's legal rights (rights of contract, property rights, voting rights); for rights to bodily integrity and autonomy, for abortion rights, and for reproductive rights (including access to contraception and quality prenatal care); for protection from domestic violence, sexual harassment and rape; for workplace rights, including maternity leave and equal pay; and against other forms of discrimination.


More about Feminism...





View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Featured article



Mary: A Fiction is the first and only complete novel written by the eighteenth-century British feminist Mary Wollstonecraft. It tells the tragic story of a heroine's successive "romantic friendships" with a woman and a man. Composed while Wollstonecraft was a governess in Ireland, the novel was published in 1788 shortly after her summary dismissal and her momentous decision to embark on a writing career, a precarious and disreputable profession for women in eighteenth-century Britain. Inspired by Jean-Jacques Rousseau's idea that geniuses are self-taught, Wollstonecraft chose a rational, self-taught heroine, Mary, as the central character of her novel. Helping to redefine genius (a word which at the end of the eighteenth century was only beginning to take on its modern meaning of exceptional or brilliant), Wollstonecraft describes Mary as independent and capable of defining femininity and marriage for herself. It is Mary's "strong, original opinions" and her resistance to "conventional wisdom" that mark her as a genius. Making her heroine a genius allowed Wollstonecraft to criticize marriage as well: geniuses were "enchained" rather than enriched by marriage.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured picture








Credit: doniv



Apa Tani tribal women, with traditional tattoos and bamboo nose ornaments in Hija village, Ziro, Arunachal Pradesh, India. Originally, this practice started because the women wanted to look unattractive to males from other tribes. Apa Tani women were considered to be the most beautiful among all the Arunachal tribes.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month




February 1975 – First publication of The Female Man, a feminist science fiction novel by Joanna Russ, which follows the lives of four women living in parallel worlds who visit each other and encounter new notions of what it means to be a woman
February 1976 – Andrea Dworkin organizes public pickets of the movie Snuff out of which the activist group Women Against Pornography eventually grew
14 February 1998 – First V-Day benefit to raise money to end violence against women, inspired by Eve Ensler's play The Vagina Monologues
18 February 1934 – Birth of Audre Lorde, African-American feminist and poet who criticized earlier feminists, such as Betty Friedan, for not considering the effects of race and sexual orientation on feminism
19 February 1963 – First publication of The Feminine Mystique by Betty Friedan, which inspired second-wave feminism

More anniversaries...






edit  
Featured biography



Sir John Vanbrugh was an English architect and dramatist, best known as the designer of Blenheim Palace. He wrote two argumentative and outspoken Restoration comedies, The Relapse (1696) and The Provoked Wife (1697), which have become enduring stage favourites but originally occasioned much controversy. Vanbrugh was in many senses a radical throughout his life. As a young man and a committed Whig, he was part of the scheme to overthrow James II, put William III on the throne and protect English parliamentary democracy, dangerous undertakings which landed him in the dreaded Bastille of Paris as a political prisoner. In his career as a playwright, he offended many sections of Restoration and 18th-century society, not only by the sexual explicitness of his plays, but by their messages in defence of women's rights in marriage. His architectural work was as bold and daring as his early political activism and his marriage-themed plays, and jarred conservative opinions on the subject.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that opera singer Jessie Bartlett Davis (pictured) volunteered to pay for the publishing of the parlor song I Love You Truly, the first song written by a woman to sell one million copies?
...that Abby and Julia Smith fought for women's suffrage by refusing to pay taxes to the Town of Glastonbury, Connecticut and almost lost their property Kimberly Mansion?
...that Randi Weingarten, the openly gay president of the United Federation of Teachers, has been called one of the 25 most powerful women in New York City business?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Feminism


► Feminism by continent



► Feminism by country



► Feminism by region



► Feminism and the arts



► Counterculture of the 1960s



► Criticism of feminism



► Feminist economics



► Feminism and education



► Feminist events



► Feminist movements and ideologies



► Gender studies



► Feminism and health



► Feminism and history



► Feminism-related lists



► Men and feminism



► Feminist movement



► Feminist organizations



► People associated with feminism



► Feminist philosophy



► Feminism and sexuality



► Feminism and society



► Feminism and spirituality



► Feminism and transgender



► Women-only spaces



► Feminist works



► Works about feminism



► Feminism stubs










edit  
WikiProjects




WikiProject Feminism
WikiProject Gender Studies
WikiProject LGBT
WikiProject Human Rights
WikiProject Sociology
WikiProject Philosophy
WikiProject Discrimination
Wikipedia:WikiProject Women's sport


What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected quote







Feminism is a dirty word ... because your feminists are so ugly. Every picture I saw of those women at the nuclear plants, they were not pretty. So I didn't want to be associated with feminism because I thought it would make me ugly.
— Courtney Love







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Things you can do




Add {{Portal|Feminism}} to the See also section of Feminism-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Feminism-related articles with {{WikiProject Feminism}}
Join Wikipedia:WikiProject Feminism
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available, updated by CleanupWorklistBot.
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed Gender Studies articles in the Gender Studies WikiProject.
Requested articles: Requested articles on Feminism, Requested articles on Feminist figures
Stubs: Gender studies stubs, Feminism stubs, Women's rights activist stubs





edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Vidya Balan
 Control (Janet Jackson album)
 Marjory Stoneman Douglas
 École Polytechnique massacre
 Female genital mutilation
 Margaret Fuller
 Emma Goldman
 Janet Jackson
 Kahaani
 Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman
 Florence Nagle
 Emmeline Pankhurst
 Katy Perry
 Adelaide Anne Procter
 Taylor Swift
 Harriet Tubman
 A Vindication of the Rights of Woman
 We Can Do It!
 The Well of Loneliness
 Wife selling (English custom)
 Mary Wollstonecraft


Featured lists


 Timeline of Mary Wollstonecraft


Good articles


 2012 Delhi gang rape
 Aurora (Disney character)
 Rachel Barrett
 Batgirl
 Belle (Disney)
 Beyoncé
 Birth control
 Louise Bryant
 Can't Hold Us Down
 Claudia Cardinale
 A Catholic Statement on Pluralism and Abortion
 Lara Croft
 Cutting the Mustard
 Lucinda Lee Dalton
 The Dirty Picture
 Double burden
 Anne Dallas Dudley
 Andrea Dworkin
 Lilian Faithfull
 All-China Women's Federation
 Feminism
 Feminism in India
 Feminism in Russia
 Feminist economics
 Feminist Improvising Group
 María Teresa Ferrari
 The Fine Young Capitalists
 Jane Fonda
 Forced abortion of Feng Jianmei
 Barbara Gordon
 Government Hooker
 Hitachi Magic Wand
 Clair Huxtable
 Independent Women's Forum
 Princess Jasmine
 Doris Sands Johnson
 Love, Loss, and What I Wore
 Madonna (entertainer)
 Malouma
 Marie of Romania
 Kate Millett
 Mulan (Disney character)
 Nala (The Lion King)
 Louise Nevelson
 Yoko Ono
 Planned Parenthood
 Kim Possible (character)
 Pussy Riot
 Megan Rapinoe
 Seneca Falls Convention
 Manal al-Sharif
 Valerie Solanas
 Hope Solo
 Elizabeth Cady Stanton
 Gloria Steinem
 Jessie Stephen
 Doris Stevens
 Tessie Reynolds
 Abby Wambach
 The Woman's Bible
 Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
 Women in early modern Scotland
 Women in Classical Athens
 Women's suffrage in Wales
 Xue Susu


Featured pictures







File:Mary Garrity - Ida B. Wells-Barnett - Google Art Project - restoration crop.jpg









edit  
Topics






Feminism









Concepts
Movement
Theory
Film theory
Economics
Sexology
Theology
Women's liberation
Women's movement
Women's rights
Women's studies
Gender equality
Gender studies
Pro-feminism
Anti-feminism












History


Social
Women's history
Feminist history
History of feminism


Suffrage
Suffragette
Women's suffrage
Timeline
New Zealand
United Kingdom
United States


Waves
First
Second
Third












Subtypes
Amazon
Anarchist
Black
Chicana
Christian
Cultural
Cyberfeminism
Difference
Diversity
Eco
Equality
Equity
Fat
Gender
Global
Individualist
Islamic
Jewish
Lesbian
Liberal
Marxist
New
Postcolonial
Postmodern
Pro-life
Radical
Religious
Separatist
Sex-positive
Socialist
Feminist spirituality
Third world
Transfeminism
Womanism
French feminism
Feminist technoscience











By country
Egypt
France
Indonesia
Iran
Japan
Nepal
Nicaragua
Poland
United Kingdom
United States











Lists
Feminists
Literature
Topics










edit  
Related portals













Anarchism
Culture
Discrimination
Gender studies
Human rights
Lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender
Men's rights












Philosophy
Politics
Sexuality
Society
Sociology
Transgender






edit  
Wikimedia




Feminism on Wikinews    
Feminism on Wikiquote    
Feminism on Wikibooks    
Feminism on Wikisource    
Feminism on Wiktionary    
Feminism on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Images & Media



























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Feminism&oldid=764299355"					
Categories: Feminism portalSociety portalsFeminismHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةEspañolفارسیहिन्दीItalianoעבריתNederlandsPortuguêsРусскийதமிழ்Українська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 February 2017, at 04:03.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.292","walltime":"0.595","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2340,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":135127,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":36161,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  434.041      1 -total"," 47.12%  204.510      1 Portal:Feminism/Wikimedia"," 20.40%   88.556      1 Portal:Feminism/Featured_content"," 18.19%   78.938      3 Template:Columns-list"," 15.76%   68.399     87 Template:Icon"," 12.37%   53.670      5 Template:Random_portal_component","  6.51%   28.274      1 Template:Featured_portal","  5.73%   24.856      1 Template:Top_icon","  4.36%   18.931      1 Template:Category_handler","  3.21%   13.923      1 Template:Purge"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.093","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1772484,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1262","timestamp":"20170208220331","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":77,"wgHostname":"mw1268"});});
