 







Portal:Library and information science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







The Library and Information Science Portal



edit  watch  
Introduction



Library science and information science are two closely related and often intersecting disciplines that deal primarily with the organization and retrieval of information.
Library science is an interdisciplinary social science incorporating the humanities, law and applied science and studying topics related to libraries; the collection, organization and dissemination of information resources; and the political economy of information. Library science has also historically included archival science, although a conceptual distinction between libraries and archives has evolved over time.
Amongst the varied topics of study that fall within library science: how information resources are organized to serve the needs of select user groups; how people interact with classification systems and technology; how information is acquired, evaluated and applied by people in and outside of libraries as well as cross-culturally; how people are trained and educated for careers in libraries; the ethics that guide library service and organization; the legal status of libraries and information resources, and the applied science of information technology used in documentation and records management. Library science is constantly evolving, incorporating new topics like database management, information architecture and knowledge management.

Information science (also referred to as information studies) is an interdisciplinary science primarily concerned with the collection, classification, manipulation, storage, retrieval and dissemination of information. Information science studies the application and usage of knowledge in organizations, and the interaction between people, organizations and information systems. It is often, though not exclusively, studied as a branch of computer science or informatics and is closely related to the cognitive and social sciences.


...More about library science
More about information science...








View new selections below (purge)



edit  watch  
Selected article


The Library of Congress Subject Headings (LCSH) comprise a thesaurus (in the information technology sense) of subject headings, maintained by the United States Library of Congress, for use in bibliographic records. LC Subject Headings are an integral part of bibliographic control, which is the function by which libraries collect, organize and disseminate documents. LCSHs are applied to every item within a library’s collection, and facilitate a user’s access to items in the catalogue that pertain to similar subject matter. If users could only locate items by ‘title’ or other descriptive fields, such as ‘author’ or ‘publisher’, they would have to expend an enormous amount of time searching for items of related subject matter, and undoubtedly miss locating many items because of the ineffective and inefficient search capability.
The Subject Headings are published in five large red volumes, which are typically displayed in the reference sections of research libraries. They may also be searched online in the Library of Congress Classification Web, a subscription service, or free of charge at Library of Congress Authorities. The Library of Congress issues weekly updates. Once a library user has found the right subject headings, they are an excellent resource for finding relevant material in your library catalogue.



...Read more



More selected articles...







edit  watch  
Selected quote




“
So the America I loved still exists, if not in the White House or the Supreme Court or the Senate or the House of Representatives or the media. The America I love still exists at the front desks of our public libraries.
”



— Kurt Vonnegut, In These Times (August 26, 2004)







More selected quotes...







edit  watch  
Selected biography



Thomas Jefferson (13 April 1743 N.S.–4 July 1826) was the third President of the United States (1801–09), the principal author of the Declaration of Independence (1776), and one of the most influential Founding Fathers for his promotion of the ideals of Republicanism in the United States. Major events during his presidency include the Louisiana Purchase (1803) and the Lewis and Clark Expedition (1804–1806). After the British burned Washington, D.C. and the Library of Congress in August 1814, Jefferson offered his own collection to the nation. In January 1815, Congress accepted his offer, appropriating $23,950 for his 6,487 books, and the foundation was laid for a great national library. Today, the Library of Congress' website for federal legislative information is named THOMAS, in honor of Jefferson.



...Read more



More selected biographies...







edit  watch  
Did you know...






... that Montana State University Library (pictured) is home to the 7500-volume Trout and Salmonids Collection of books, periodicals, grey literature with ephemera, and research materials on trout and fly fishing?
... that Howard University librarian Joseph Henry Reason was the first African-American to be nominated for president of the American Library Association?
... that Shen Zhurong is considered the Father of Library Science in China?
... that the City of Tigard in Oregon started a public library, but didn't fund it?

Did you also know...





edit  watch  
In the news



March,2012, Muhammad Shahid Soroya elected as President Punjab University Library & Information Science Alumni Association (PULISAA) in Pakistan
September 21, 2011 - Library vendor OverDrive, Inc. adds Amazon Kindle compatible E-books to public and school libraries, allowing library lending over Amazon's Whispernet technology.(OverDrive)


April 4, 2007 - Noted information retrieval expert Karen Spärck Jones dies.(Univ. of Cambridge)


March 23, 2007 - University of Michigan School of Information announces first U.S. Master's degree specialization in Social Computing.(PR Newswire)


March 22, 2007 - Child Online Protection Act ruled unconstitutional by United States federal judge.(ZDNet)

Older news...







edit  watch  
Selected picture








Image credit: SimonP



A bookmobile or mobile library, such as this one belonging to Ottawa Public Library, is a large vehicle designed for use as a library. It is designed to hold books on shelves, so that when the vehicle is parked the books can be accessed by readers.





More selected pictures...







edit  watch  
Categories



Library science - Libraries - Librarians - Library 2.0 - Library associations - Library cataloging and classification - Library consortia



Bibliographic databases and indexes - Bibliography - Catalogues - Classification systems - Help desk - Index (publishing) - Reference management software



Information architects - Information retrieval - Information science - Information systems - Information theory







edit  watch  
WikiProjects


Libraries
Anime and manga | Books | Children's literature | Comics | Fact and Reference Check | Poetry | Science Fiction






edit  watch  
Things you can do



Nominate a selected article, biography, picture or quote.



Expand articles listed on the list of basic library and information science topics.
Expand a stub article.
Create a requested article.
Join the WikiProject Librarians.
Help out at the reference desk.









edit  watch  
Topics in library and information science



For a more comprehensive treatment of topics, see Outline of library science.



General
Structure
Storage/ retrieval
Society





Glossary of library and information science
List of librarians
List of I-Schools
History of Information Science
History of library science
Librarians in popular culture





Information architecture
Cataloging
List of Catalogs and indexes
Classification

Library classification
Taxonomic classification
Scientific classification
Statistical classification
Security classification
Film classification


Categorization
Data modeling
Knowledge management/ Knowledge engineering
Information system






Information retrieval

Controlled vocabulary
Cross-language information retrieval
Digital libraries
Document classification
Educational psychology
Federated search
Full text search
Geographic information system
Information extraction
Knowledge visualization
Question answering
Search engines
Search index
tf-idf


Memory
Information seeking
Data storage device
Document management
Semantic web
XML
Computer storage





Information society
Censorship
Copyright
Freedom of Information Act
Information access
Intellectual freedom
Intellectual property
Literacy
USA PATRIOT Act
Open source
Privacy
Cultural studies
Technological determinism
Groupware
Human-computer interaction
Information ethics
Usability engineering/ User-centered design




Institutions
Scientometrics
Informatics
Preservation





Libraries
Archives
Museums
Media
Education
Economic system
Government
Family/ friends
Religion






Bibliometrics
Bradford's law
Citation
Data mining
Impact factor
Informetrics
Peer review
Scientometrics
Web mining
Webometrics






Bioinformatics
Biodiversity Informatics
Biomedical informatics
Business Informatics
Ecoinformatics
Cheminformatics
Community informatics
Geoinformatics
Health informatics
Laboratory informatics
Neuroinformatics
Social informatics






Archival science
Conservation[disambiguation needed]
Conservation movement[clarification needed]
Preservationist
Art conservation and restoration
Digital preservation
Film preservation
Historic preservation
Case preservation[clarification needed]










edit  watch  
Related portals





Books



British Library



Computer science



Education



Information technology



Law



Literature



Society








edit  watch  
Associated Wikimedia





Libraries on Wikibooks    
Libraries on Wikinews    
Libraries on Wikiquote    
Libraries on Wikimedia Commons    
Libraries on Wikisource


Books
News
Quotes
Images
Texts


























edit  watch  
Portals?




What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Library_and_information_science&oldid=693835570"					
Categories: Library scienceCulture portalsScience portalsEducation portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


AfrikaansالعربيةČeštinaDeutschEestiFrançaisپښتوPolski 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 5 December 2015, at 06:11.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.188","walltime":"0.353","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2188,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":107721,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":8840,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  260.869      1 -total"," 32.83%   85.633      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 20.21%   52.727      1 Portal:Library_and_information_science/Library_and_information_science_topics"," 14.01%   36.553      1 Portal:Library_and_information_science/Related_portals"," 12.40%   32.355      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 10.04%   26.183      2 Template:Clarify","  9.30%   24.254      8 Template:Related_portal_item","  8.98%   23.420      2 Template:Fix-span","  8.66%   22.599      1 Template:Dn","  8.58%   22.386      8 Template:Portal_image"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.060","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2256043,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1244","timestamp":"20170205100007","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":85,"wgHostname":"mw1274"});});
