 







Portal:Christianity

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 Religion
Atheism
Creationism
Mythology
Nontheism
Occult
Spirituality
African (Serer)
 Bábism (Bahá'í Faith) 
  Buddhism (Mahayana
Tibetan
Vajrayana) 
 Chinese (Confucianism
Falun Gong
Taoism) 
  Christianity (Bible
in China
in India
Saints)
Seventh-day Adventism
Anabaptism
 Anglicanism
Arminianism
Baptist
Calvinism
Christadelphianism
Eastern (Oriental Orthodoxy
Syriac)
Latter Day Saints (Book of Mormon
LDS Church
Community of Christ)
Lutheranism
Methodism
Roman Catholicism (Pope) 
 Heathenism 
 Hellenismos (Greek mythology) 
 Indian (Ayyavazhi)
 Hinduism (mythology
Ravidassia) 
Jainism
Sikhism
  Islam (in China
in Russia
Shia
Ahmadiyya
Sufism
Quran) 
 Judaism (Kabbalah) 
  Scientology 
 Shinto 
 Wicca 
 Zoroastrianism 





The CHRISTIANITY PORTAL



Main
 
Indices
 
Projects



edit  
Showcased Christianity content



Christianity is a monotheistic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus Christ. It is the world's largest religion, with over 2.4 billion followers, known as Christians. Christians believe that Jesus is the Son of God and the savior of humanity whose coming as the Messiah (the Christ) was prophesied in the Old Testament.
Christian theology is summarized in various creeds. These professions of faith state that Jesus suffered, died, was buried, descended into hell, and rose from the dead, in order to grant eternal life to those who believe in him and trust in him for the remission of their sins. The creeds further maintain that Jesus bodily ascended into heaven, where he reigns with God the Father in the unity of the Holy Spirit, and that he will return to judge the living and the dead and grant eternal life to his followers. His incarnation, earthly ministry, crucifixion, and resurrection are often referred to as "the gospel", meaning "good news". The term gospel also refers to written accounts of Jesus's life and teaching, four of which—Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John—are considered canonical and included in the Christian Bible.
Christianity began as a Second Temple Judaic sect in the mid-1st century. Throughout its history, the religion has weathered schisms and theological disputes that have resulted in many distinct churches and denominations. Worldwide, the three largest branches of Christianity are the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, and the various denominations of Protestantism. The Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches broke communion with each other in the East-West Schism of 1054; Protestantism came into existence in the Reformation of the 16th century, splitting from the Catholic Church.

Learn more about Christianity...




View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The First Crusade (1095–1099) was the first of a number of crusades that attempted to recapture the Holy Lands, called by Pope Urban II in 1095. It started as a widespread pilgrimage in western Christendom and ended as a military expedition by Roman Catholic Europe to regain the Holy Lands taken in the Muslim conquests of the Levant (632–661), ultimately resulting in the capture of Jerusalem in 1099.
It was launched on 27 November 1095 by Pope Urban II with the primary goal of responding to an appeal from Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos, who requested that western volunteers come to his aid and help to repel the invading Seljuk Turks from Anatolia. An additional goal soon became the principal objective—the Christian reconquest of the sacred city of Jerusalem and the Holy Land and the freeing of the Eastern Christians from Muslim rule.
During the crusade, knights, peasants and serfs from many regions of Western Europe travelled over land and by sea, first to Constantinople and then on towards Jerusalem. The Crusaders arrived at Jerusalem, launched an assault on the city, and captured it in July 1099, massacring many of the city's Muslim and Jewish inhabitants. They also established the crusader states of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, the County of Tripoli, the Principality of Antioch, and the County of Edessa.
The First Crusade was followed by the Second to the Ninth Crusades. It was also the first major step towards reopening international trade in the West since the fall of the Western Roman Empire. Due to the First Crusade being largely concerned with Jerusalem, a city which had not been under Christian dominion for 461 years, and that the crusader army, on seizure of lands, had refused to honour a brokered promise before the seizure to return gained lands to the control of the Byzantine Empire, the status of the First Crusade as defensive or aggressive in nature remains unanswered and controversial. The majority view is that it had elements of both in its nature.






All selected articles • Nominate an article...




edit  
Selected scripture







Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words, And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. It was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.
— Resurrection of Jesus, Luke 24:1-12; King James Version







...Archive/Nominations


More quotes...




All selected scriptures • Nominate a scripture...




edit  
Did you know...


....that ecclesiastical Latin remains the official language of the Roman Catholic Church and is thus also the official language of Vatican City?
....that although raised as a Christian, C. S. Lewis spent most of his youth being an atheist until discussions with close friends such as J. R. R. Tolkien gradually persuaded him to reconvert?
...that The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come, a Christian allegorical novel written in 1675 by John Bunyan while imprisoned in England, is regarded as one of the greatest classics of literature and has been widely translated into more than 100 languages other than its original English text?
...that the Amish are a denomination of Anabaptists, found primarily in the United States and Canada, who do not vote, join the military, pay or draw Social Security, or accept any form of assistance from the government?
Archive • Suggest a DYK?...









edit  
Selected biography



Saint Joan of Arc, nicknamed "The Maid of Orléans" (French: Jeanne d'Arc, IPA: [ʒan daʁk]; ca. 1412 – 30 May 1431), is considered a national heroine of France and a Catholic saint. A peasant girl born in eastern France who claimed divine guidance, she led the French army to several important victories during the Hundred Years' War, which paved the way for the coronation of Charles VII. She was captured by the Burgundians, sold to the English, tried by an ecclesiastical court, and burned at the stake when she was 19 years old. Twenty-five years after the execution, Pope Callixtus III examined the trial, pronounced her innocent and declared her a martyr. Joan of Arc was beatified in 1909 and canonized in 1920. She is – along with St. Denis, St. Martin of Tours, St. Louis IX, and St. Theresa of Lisieux – one of the patron saints of France.
Joan asserted that she had visions from God that instructed her to recover her homeland from English domination late in the Hundred Years' War. The uncrowned King Charles VII sent her to the siege of Orléans as part of a relief mission. She gained prominence when she overcame the dismissive attitude of veteran commanders and lifted the siege in only nine days. Several more swift victories led to Charles VII's coronation at Reims and settled the disputed succession to the throne.
Down to the present day, Joan of Arc has remained a significant figure in Western culture. From Napoleon onward, French politicians of all leanings have invoked her memory. Famous writers and composers who have created works about her include: Shakespeare (Henry VI, Part 1), Voltaire (The Maid of Orleans poem), Schiller (The Maid of Orleans play), Verdi (Giovanna d'Arco), Tchaikovsky (The Maid of Orleans opera), Mark Twain (Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc), Arthur Honegger (Jeanne d'Arc au bûcher), Jean Anouilh (L'Alouette), Bertolt Brecht (Saint Joan of the Stockyards), George Bernard Shaw (Saint Joan) and Maxwell Anderson (Joan of Lorraine). Depictions of her continue in film, theatre, television, video games, music and performance.






All selected biographies • Nominate a biography...




edit  
Selected picture








Credit: User:Robert Weemeyer



A Christian martyr is a person who is killed for following Christianity, through stoning, crucifixion, burning at the stake or other forms of torture and capital punishment. The word "martyr" comes from the Greek word μάρτυς, mártys, which means "witness." At first, the term applied to Apostles. Once Christians started to undergo persecution, the term came to be applied to those who suffered hardships for their faith. Finally, it was restricted to those who had been killed for their faith. The early Christian period before Constantine I was the "Age of martyrs". A martyr's death was considered a "baptism in blood," cleansing one of sin, similar to the effect of baptism in water. Early Christians venerated martyrs as powerful intercessors, and their utterances were treasured as inspired by the Holy Spirit.



Archive



More...





All selected pictures • Nominate a picture...






edit  
Topics









v
t
e


Christianity






Jesus



Christ
Jesus in Christianity
Virgin birth
Crucifixion
Resurrection
Son of God











Foundations



Church
Creed
Gospel
New Covenant








Bible



Books
Canon
Old Testament
New Testament








Theology



God
Trinity

Father
Son
Holy Spirit


Apologetics
Baptism
Catholicism
Christology
Ecclesiology
History of theology
Mission
Salvation









History and
tradition




Mary
Joseph
Apostles
Peter
Paul
Fathers
Early
Constantine
Ecumenical councils
Augustine
East–West Schism
Crusades
Aquinas
Protestant Reformation
Luther









Denomi-
nations
and
traditions
(list)






Western




Adventist
Anabaptist
Anglican
Baptist
Calvinist
Catholic
Charismatic
Evangelical
Holiness
Lutheran
Methodist
Pentecostal
Protestant









Eastern




Eastern Orthodox
Eastern Catholic
Oriental Orthodox (Miaphysite)
Assyrian Church of the East ("Nestorian")









Nontrinitarian




Jehovah's Witnesses
Latter Day Saint movement
Oneness Pentecostalism











Related topics



Art
Criticism
Culture
Ecumenism
Liturgy
Music
Other religions
Prayer
Sermon
Symbolism











 Category
 Christianity portal













edit  
Related portals













Bible
Saints
Indian Christianity
Chinese Christianity
Lutheranism
Christadelphians













Syric Christianity
Calvinism
Anglicanism
Baptist
Roman Catholicism
Crusades
Evangelical Christianity












Eastern Christianity
Seventh-day Adventism
Creationism
Pope
Oriental Orthodoxy
LDS Church












Christian Music
Messianic Judaism
Christian Metal
Methodism
Private revelation
Community of Christ









edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species

















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals



Shortcuts to this page: Christianity portals • Portal:Christ • P:X

Purge server cache









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Christianity&oldid=733547393"					
Categories: Christianity portalAbrahamic religion portalsChristianity portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisource 



Languages


العربيةAzərbaycancaБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançais한국어HrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaქართულიМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語НохчийнPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලСрпски / srpskiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 August 2016, at 15:34.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.200","walltime":"0.380","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2669,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":110712,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":19133,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  214.740      1 -total"," 25.56%   54.888      1 Portal:Christianity/Selected_biography/14"," 24.91%   53.489      2 Portal:Christianity/Selected_article/Layout"," 23.25%   49.924      1 Template:Lang-fr"," 22.73%   48.816      1 Template:Language_with_name"," 22.08%   47.416      1 Template:Lang"," 21.90%   47.019      2 Template:Category_handler"," 16.04%   34.452      9 Portal:Christianity/box-header"," 15.27%   32.793      2 Template:Navbox"," 14.93%   32.056      1 Template:Christianityfooter"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.022","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1546461,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1241","timestamp":"20170209173107","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":454,"wgHostname":"mw1241"});});
