 







Portal:Anglicanism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 Religion
Atheism
Creationism
Mythology
Nontheism
Occult
Spirituality
African (Serer)
 Bábism (Bahá'í Faith) 
  Buddhism (Mahayana
Tibetan
Vajrayana) 
 Chinese (Confucianism
Falun Gong
Taoism) 
  Christianity (Bible
in China
in India
Saints)
Seventh-day Adventism
Anabaptism
 Anglicanism
Arminianism
Baptist
Calvinism
Christadelphianism
Eastern (Oriental Orthodoxy
Syriac)
Latter Day Saints (Book of Mormon
LDS Church
Community of Christ)
Lutheranism
Methodism
Roman Catholicism (Pope) 
 Heathenism 
 Hellenismos (Greek mythology) 
 Indian (Ayyavazhi)
 Hinduism (mythology
Ravidassia) 
Jainism
Sikhism
  Islam (in China
in Russia
Shia
Ahmadiyya
Sufism
Quran) 
 Judaism (Kabbalah) 
  Scientology 
 Shinto 
 Wicca 
 Zoroastrianism 






The Anglicanism Portal

edit  
Showcased Anglican content






A map showing the provinces of the Anglican Communion (blue). Also shown are the churches in full communion with the Anglicans: The churches of the Porvoo Communion (green) and the Union of Utrecht (red)


Anglicanism most commonly refers to the beliefs and practices of the Anglican Communion, a worldwide affiliation of Christian churches. There is no single "Anglican Church" with universal juridical authority, since each national or regional church has full autonomy. As the name suggests, the communion is an association of churches in full communion with the Archbishop of Canterbury. With an estimated 80 million members, the Anglican Communion is the third largest communion in the world, after the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox Churches.
Anglicanism, in its structures, theology and forms of worship, is understood as a distinct Christian tradition representing a middle ground between Roman Catholicism and Protestantism and, as such, is often referred to as being a via media ("middle way") between these traditions. Anglicans uphold the Catholic and Apostolic faith and follow the teachings of Jesus Christ. In practice Anglicans believe this is revealed in Holy Scripture and the creeds and interpret these in light of Christian tradition, scholarship, reason and experience.
One definition of the Anglican Communion is: "The 1930 Lambeth Conference described the Anglican Communion as a 'fellowship, within the one holy catholic and apostolic church, of those duly constituted dioceses, provinces or regional churches in communion with the see of Canterbury.'" - Colin Buchanan, Historical Dictionary of Anglicanism
Learn more about Anglicanism...


Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



St Mary's Church, Nether Alderley is an Anglican church lying at the end of a quiet lane to the south of the village of Nether Alderley, Cheshire, England. It dates from the 14th century, with later additions and a major restoration in the late-19th century, and is a Grade I listed building. The church was built in the Gothic style, and has historically been associated with the Stanley family of Alderley. Its major features include a fine tower, the Stanley pew which is entered by an outside staircase, a 14th-century font, the western gallery, and monuments to the Lords Stanley of Alderley.
The grounds contain a 17th-century former schoolhouse, now used as a parish hall, a medieval church cross, and the Stanley Mausoleum, which dates from 1909. An ancient yew tree stands in the churchyard. St Mary's holds a variety of Anglican services on Sundays and offers a range of church activities. The church is open to visitors at advertised times and guided tours are available. A parish magazine is published monthly. Its benefice is united with that of St Catherine's, Birtles. Clifton-Taylor includes it in his list of "best" English parish churches.



...Archive/Noms



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: David Iliff



Chapel at Keble College as viewed across the quadrangle in Oxford, England.



...Archive/Noms



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that St Nicolas Church, Portslade is an Anglican church that has 12th-century origins, and serves the old village of Portslade, inland from the mostly 19th-century Portslade-by-Sea area?
...that Animadversions is the third of John Milton's antiprelatical tracts, in the form of a response to the works and claims of Bishop Joseph Hall?
...that George Stanhope was a priest who was amongst the commissioners responsible for the building of fifty new churches in London?




...Archive/Noms











edit  
Selected biography



Robert Catesby (b. in or after 1572 – 8 November 1605), was the leader of a group of provincial English Roman Catholics who planned the failed Gunpowder Plot of 1605.
James I was less tolerant of Roman Catholicism than its followers had hoped, and Catesby therefore planned to kill the king by blowing up the House of Lords with gunpowder, the prelude to a popular revolt against the Anglican government during which a Roman Catholic monarch would be restored to the English throne. Early in 1604 he began to recruit other Roman Catholics to his cause, including Thomas Wintour, John Wright, Thomas Percy, and Guy Fawkes. Described variously as a charismatic and influential man, as well as a religious zealot, over the following months he helped bring a further eight conspirators into the plot, whose naissance was planned for 5 November 1605. A letter sent anonymously to William Parker, 4th Baron Monteagle, alerted the authorities, and on the eve of the planned explosion, during a search of Parliament, Fawkes was found guarding the barrels of gunpowder. News of his arrest caused the other plotters to flee London, warning Catesby along their way. With his diminished group of followers, Catesby made a stand at Holbeche House in Staffordshire, against a 200-strong company of armed men. He was shot, and later found dead, clutching a picture of the Virgin Mary. As a warning to others, his body was exhumed and his head exhibited outside Parliament.



...Archive/Noms



More...







edit  
Selected holy days



2 February Presentation of Christ at the Temple (Candlemas)
27 February George Herbert




...Archive/Noms


More...







edit  
Categories




▼ Anglicanism


► Anglicanism by continent



► Anglicanism by country



► Anglicanism templates



► Alumni of St Bees Theological College



► Anglicanism-related lists



► Anglicans



► Anglican churches



► Canon law of the Anglican Communion



► Anglican cemeteries



► Continuing Anglican movement



► Anglican denominations



► Anglican dioceses



► Anglican ecclesiastical provinces



► Anglican ecclesiastical offices



► Anglican ecumenism



► Anglican education



► Episcopacy in Anglicanism



► Anglican heraldry



► History of Anglicanism



► Anglican liturgy



► Anglican organizations



► Anglican pilgrimage sites



► Recipients of the Cross of St Augustine



► Sacramentals



► Anglican saints



► Schisms from the Anglican Communion



► Anglican theology and doctrine









edit  
WikiProjects




Religion

Christianity

Anglicanism
Bible
Saints











edit  
Related topics







Anglicanism topics





Organisation

Archbishop of Canterbury - Rowan Williams - Primates' Meeting - Lambeth Conferences
Anglican Consultative Council - Bishops, Dioceses, and Episcopal polity







Background

Christianity - Christian Church - Anglican Communion - History - Jesus Christ
Catholicity and Catholicism - Apostolic Succession - Ministry - Ecumenical councils
Augustine of Canterbury - Bede - Medieval Architecture - Henry VIII - Reformation
Thomas Cranmer - Dissolution of the Monasteries - Church of England - Edward VI
Elizabeth I - Matthew Parker - Richard Hooker - James I - Authorized Version
Charles I - William Laud - Nonjuring schism - Ordination of women - Homosexuality
Windsor Report






Theology

Trinity (Father, Son, Holy Spirit) - Theology - Doctrine - Thirty-Nine Articles
Caroline Divines - Oxford Movement - Chicago-Lambeth Quadrilateral - Sacraments
Mary - Saints






Liturgy and Worship

Book of Common Prayer - Morning and Evening Prayer - Eucharist - Liturgical Year
Biblical Canon - Books of Homilies - High Church - Low Church - Broad Church






Miscellaneous Topics

Ecumenism - Monasticism - Preaching - Prayer - Music - Liturgy - Symbols - Art










edit  
Things to do







Anglicanism Collaboration: St. Luke's Church (Smithfield, Virginia)
Requests: Ian Ramsay (bishop)
Stubs: Primate of the Anglican Church of Canada, Aberdeen doctors
Expand: Anglican Consultative Council, Anglican Communion Primates' Meeting, Caroline Divines
Cite sources: Anglican Communion, Anglicanism, Book of Common Prayer, Windsor Report, Francis Fulford
Join WikiProject Anglicanism and contribute!








edit  
Related portals















Religion
Christianity
Roman
Catholicism
Eastern
Christianity
Lutheranism
Christianity
in China
Christianity
in India
Saints
Bible






edit  
Wikimedia




Anglicanism category on Wikinews  
Anglicanism quotes  
Anglicanism portal on Wikisource  
Anglicanism on Wikibooks  
Anglicanism category on Wikicommons  
Anglicanism category on Wiktionary  
Wikiversity School of Theology


News
Quotations
Publications
Manuals
Images
Definitions
Learning































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Anglicanism&oldid=649199793"					
Categories: Anglicanism portalChristianity portalsAnglicanismHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


Русский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 07:40.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.172","walltime":"0.377","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1771,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":80937,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":9966,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  281.480      1 -total"," 47.81%  134.578      4 Template:Random_portal_component","  9.07%   25.544      1 Portal:Anglicanism/Selected_Anglican/Layout","  8.96%   25.217      1 Portal:Anglicanism/Selected_picture/Layout","  8.72%   24.532      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.83%   22.052      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.47%   18.213      1 Portal:Anglicanism/Projects","  6.08%   17.121      1 Template:Category_handler","  6.07%   17.091      1 Template:Purge","  4.66%   13.125      1 Portal:Anglicanism/Opentask"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.042","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1059364,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1273","timestamp":"20170209190850","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":66,"wgHostname":"mw1258"});});
