 








Portal:Islam

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search











Welcome to... Al-Islam Portal

A portal for Wikipedia's Islam-related resources.
20,120 articles in English.



Al-Islam Portal

Muhammad Portal

What is Islam?

Indices

Wikiproject

Categories








edit  
Wikipedia portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 Religion
Atheism
Creationism
Mythology
Nontheism
Occult
Spirituality
African (Serer)
 Bábism (Bahá'í Faith) 
  Buddhism (Mahayana
Tibetan
Vajrayana) 
 Chinese (Confucianism
Falun Gong
Taoism) 
  Christianity (Bible
in China
in India
Saints)
Seventh-day Adventism
Anabaptism
 Anglicanism
Arminianism
Baptist
Calvinism
Christadelphianism
Eastern (Oriental Orthodoxy
Syriac)
Latter Day Saints (Book of Mormon
LDS Church
Community of Christ)
Lutheranism
Methodism
Roman Catholicism (Pope) 
 Heathenism 
 Hellenismos (Greek mythology) 
 Indian (Ayyavazhi)
 Hinduism (mythology
Ravidassia) 
Jainism
Sikhism
  Islam (in China
in Russia
Shia
Ahmadiyya
Sufism
Quran) 
 Judaism (Kabbalah) 
  Scientology 
 Shinto 
 Wicca 
 Zoroastrianism 









edit  
Islam Portal



Allāh



Islam (Arabic: الإسلام‎‎ al-’islām, pronounced [ʔislæːm] ( listen) is the religion articulated by the Qur’an, a book considered by its adherents to be the verbatim word of the single incomparable God (Arabic: الله‎‎, Allāh), and by the Islamic prophet Muhammad's demonstrations and real-life examples (called the Sunnah, collected through narration of his companions in collections of Hadith). The word Islam, a triliteral of the word salaam, is a homograph, having multiple meanings, including peace and surrender (to God). Adherents are known as Muslims, which is the active participle of the verb of which Islām is the infinitive. Muslims regard their religion as the completed and universal version of a monotheistic faith revealed at many times and places before, including, notably, to the prophets Abraham, Moses and Jesus. Islamic tradition holds that previous messages and revelations have been changed and distorted over time. Religious practices include the Five Pillars of Islam, which are five duties that unite Muslims into a community. Islamic law (Arabic: شريعة Šarīʿah) touches on virtually every aspect of life and society, encompassing everything from dietary laws and banking to warfare, welfare, and Jihad. Almost all Muslims belong to one of two major denominations, the Sunni (87-90%) and Shi'a (10-13%). Islam is the predominant religion in much of Africa, the Middle East and major parts of Asia. Large communities are also found in China, Russia and the Caribbean. Converts and immigrant communities are found in almost every part of the world. With 1.57 billion Muslims (see Islam by country), Islam is the second-largest religion in the world and arguably the fastest growing religion in the world.


More about Islam...








View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The Second Crusade was the second major crusade launched from Europe, called in 1145 in response to the fall of the County of Edessa the previous year. Edessa was the first of the Crusader states to have been founded during the First Crusade, and was the first to fall. The Second Crusade was announced by Pope Eugenius III, and was the first of the crusades to be led by European kings, namely Louis VII of France and Conrad III of Germany. The armies of the two kings marched separately across Europe and were separately defeated by the Seljuk Turks. Louis and Conrad and the remnants of their armies reached Jerusalem and in 1148 participated in an ill-advised attack on Damascus. The crusade in the east was a failure for the crusaders and a great victory for the Muslims. It would ultimately lead to the fall of Jerusalem and the Third Crusade at the end of the 12th century. The only success came on the opposite end of the Mediterranean, where English crusaders, on the way by ship to the Holy Land, fortuitously stopped and helped capture Lisbon in 1147.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured picture








Credit: American colony photographers (edited by Durova)



A Bedouin woman in Jerusalem, sometime between 1898 and 1914, dressed in Palestinian costume, the traditional clothing worn by Palestinians. Many of the handcrafted garments were richly embroidered and the creation and maintenance of these items played a significant role in the lives of the region's women. Until the 1940s, traditional Palestinian costumes reflected a woman's economic status, whether married or single, and the town or district of origin, and a knowledgeable observer could glean such information from the fabric, colors, cut, and embroidery motifs (or lack thereof) in a given woman's apparel.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






7 February 1999 - Death of Hussein of Jordan (pictured), King of Jordan from 1952 until his death
7 February 2008 - Turkish Parliament passes amendment to constitution, allowing women to wear the hijab in Turkish universities
9 February 1912 - Muhammadiyah organization's central board and provincial chiefs endorse presidential campaign of its former chairman, sparking controversy in Islam in Indonesia
15 February 2007 - Supreme Court in India describes the banned Students Islamic Movement of India as a "secessionist movement"

More anniversaries...






edit  
In the news

Wikinews Islam portal


Category:Islam









edit  
Selected biography


Abū Yūsuf Yaʻqūb ibn Isḥāq al-Kindī (c. 801–873 CE), also known to the West by the Latinized version of his name Alkindus, was an Arab polymath: an Islamic philosopher, scientist, astrologer, astronomer, cosmologist, chemist, logician, mathematician, musician, physician, physicist, psychologist, and meteorologist. Al-Kindi was the first of the Muslim Peripatetic philosophers, and is known for his efforts to introduce Greek and Hellenistic philosophy to the Arab world, and as a pioneer in chemistry, cryptography, medicine, music theory, physics, psychology, and the philosophy of science. Al-Kindi was a descendant of the Kinda tribe. He was born and educated in Kufa, before pursuing further studies in Baghdad. Al-Kindi became a prominent figure in the House of Wisdom, and a number of Abbasid Caliphs appointed him to oversee the translation of Greek scientific and philosophical texts into the Arabic language. This contact with "the philosophy of the ancients" (as Greek and Hellenistic philosophy was often referred to by Muslim scholars) had a profound effect on his intellectual development, and led him to write original treatises on subjects ranging from Islamic ethics and metaphysics to Islamic mathematics and pharmacology.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that in 717 Al-Hurr ibn Abd al-Rahman al-Thaqafi became the first Muslim commander ever to cross the Pyrenees mountain range (pictured)?
...that Bhudev Mukhopadhyay taught at Hindu, Muslim and Christian schools?
...that before the Bagratids unified Georgia, Caucasian Iberia was ruled by a succession of princes under the influence of the Byzantines, the Persians and the Muslim Caliphate from the 6th to the 9th centuries?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
WikiProjects



Parent project

Religion


Main project

Islam

Task forces

Shi'a Islam • Sunni Islam • Quranic Islam • Hadith • Prophets • Salaf • Muslim scholars • Islam and Controversy • Muslim history • Mosques • Links Cleanup

Related task forces

Early Muslim military history task force

What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected quote







Religion is a link between God and man and man and man. Political ideology is a link between man and man. For this reason the great religions of the world like Hinduism, Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity and Islam, the last of all religions, have outlived and outlasted political ideologies. If an unlearned adventurer in his quest for political power and perpetuation brings religion down from its celestial plane to a mundane level by converting it into a narrow political ideology, the adventurer endangers the link between God and man and man and man.
— Zulfikar Ali Bhutto







...Archive/Nominations


More...








edit  
Topics


Islam (book)
Beliefs and practices: Oneness of God • Profession of Faith • Prayer • Fasting • Pilgrimage • Charity

Major figures: Muhammad • Abu Bakr • Umar • Uthman • Ali • Companions of Muhammad • Household of Muhammad • Prophets of Islam • Shia Imams
Texts & Laws: Qur'an • Hadith • Sharia • Jurisprudence • Theology • Biographies of Muhammad
Branches of Islam: Sunni • Shi'a • Sufi • Ibadi • Quranism • Ahmadiyya
Sociopolitical aspects: Academics • Philosophy • Art • Science • Architecture • Calendar• Holidays • Women in Islam • Leaders • Politics • Islamic Peace • Jihad • Liberalism • International Freedom Alliance • Islamophobia

See also: Vocabulary of Islam, Index of articles on Islam






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 The Autobiography of Malcolm X
 Jesus
 Akhtar Hameed Khan
 Malcolm X
 Second Crusade
 Suleiman the Magnificent
 Fakih Usman


Featured lists


 The Twelve Imams


Good articles


 Abbey Mills Mosque
 Al-Azhar Mosque
 Alid Revolt (762–763)
 Allah
 Idi Amin
 Al-Aqsa Mosque
 Arab–Byzantine wars
 Assassination of Ali
 Ayyubid dynasty
 Badshahi Mosque
 Battle of the Trench
 Battle of Khazir
 Beit Al Quran
 Black Stone
 Byzantine–Ottoman wars
 Anjem Choudary
 Cologne Central Mosque
 Disgraced
 First Crusade
 Fustat
 Ganting Grand Mosque
 Great Mosque of Gaza
 Hajj
 Al-Harith ibn Surayj
 Hezbollah
 History of Gaza
 Isaac
 Islam: The Untold Story
 Islamic geometric patterns
 Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
 Khalid ibn al-Walid
 Langit Makin Mendung
 Al-Maʿarri
 Abd al-Rahman al-Mahdi
 Malé Friday Mosque
 Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik
 Moorish Gibraltar
 Muhammad
 Al-Muktafi
 Muslim women in sport
 Al-Mu'tamid
 Al-Mu'tasim
 Al-Masjid an-Nabawi
 Nagore Dargah
 Hakeem Olajuwon
 Oran fatwa
 The Prince of Egypt
 Qutayba ibn Muslim
 Al-Risalah al-Dhahabiah
 Sahifah of al-Ridha
 Sang Pencerah
 Idries Shah
 Sai Baba of Shirdi
 Salimuzzaman Siddiqui
 Siege of Lal Masjid
 Siege of Jerusalem (636–637)
 Sources of sharia
 Splitting of the moon
 Tablighi Jamaat
 Battle of Uhud
 Uzair
 Geert Wilders
 Battle of Yarmouk


Featured pictures







File:Kairo Ibn Tulun Moschee BW 4.jpg











edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Islam}} to the See also section of Islam-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Islam-related articles with {{WikiProject Islam}}
Join WikiProject Islam and list yourself as a Participant in the project.
Attention: A list of articles needing immediate attention is available.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.
Deletion discussions: listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Islam
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed Islam articles in the Islam WikiProject.
Requested articles: Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat Islam, Lahore, Inc.; Ahmadiyya Movement of Islam; Prosperos; Islam and environmentalism
Stubs: Islamic biography stubs, Mosque stubs, Islamic organization stubs, Quran stubs, Islam by country stubs, Islamic studies book stubs, More...










edit  
Related portals





Quran



Shia Islam



Ahmadiyya



Ashura



Religion



Judaism



Christianity



Spirituality



Islam in China



Islam in Russia



Arab World



Middle East



Sufism



Geert Wilders








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Islam on  Wikinews 
Islam on  Wikiquote 
Islam on  Wikibooks 
Islam on  Wikisource 
Islam on  Wiktionary 
Islam on  Wikiversity 
Islam on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media
































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Islam&oldid=701789568"					
Categories: Islam portalIslam portalsAbrahamic religion portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portalsWikipedia move-protected portalsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikisourceWikiversity 



Languages


العربيةАварAzərbaycancaবাংলাБашҡортсаBosanskiČeštinaDeutschEspañolفارسیFrançaisहिन्दीBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaქართულიҚазақшаKurdîКыргызчаМакедонскиമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語НохчийнNorsk nynorskOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsРусскийසිංහලکوردیی ناوەندیSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtZazaki中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 26 January 2016, at 16:05.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.360","walltime":"0.559","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3359,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":152314,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":36576,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":13,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  376.064      1 -total"," 21.40%   80.475      1 Portal:Islam/Featured_content"," 19.71%   74.139      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.14%   71.986      3 Template:Columns-list"," 16.40%   61.666     71 Template:Icon"," 14.79%   55.637      1 Portal:Islam/Related_portals"," 14.61%   54.950      1 Template:Pp-semi-protected"," 14.44%   54.320      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 12.71%   47.793      1 Portal:Islam/Intro"," 11.92%   44.814     14 Template:Related_portal_item"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.123","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3227525,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1304","timestamp":"20170211000128","ttl":86400,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":52,"wgHostname":"mw1238"});});
