 







Portal:Scientology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 Religion
Atheism
Creationism
Mythology
Nontheism
Occult
Spirituality
African (Serer)
 Bábism (Bahá'í Faith) 
  Buddhism (Mahayana
Tibetan
Vajrayana) 
 Chinese (Confucianism
Falun Gong
Taoism) 
  Christianity (Bible
in China
in India
Saints)
Seventh-day Adventism
Anabaptism
 Anglicanism
Arminianism
Baptist
Calvinism
Christadelphianism
Eastern (Oriental Orthodoxy
Syriac)
Latter Day Saints (Book of Mormon
LDS Church
Community of Christ)
Lutheranism
Methodism
Roman Catholicism (Pope) 
 Heathenism 
 Hellenismos (Greek mythology) 
 Indian (Ayyavazhi)
 Hinduism (mythology
Ravidassia) 
Jainism
Sikhism
  Islam (in China
in Russia
Shia
Ahmadiyya
Sufism
Quran) 
 Judaism (Kabbalah) 
  Scientology 
 Shinto 
 Wicca 
 Zoroastrianism 




edit  
The Scientology Portal



Scientology is a body of beliefs and related practices created by Speculative Fiction author L. Ron Hubbard (1911–1986), starting in 1952, as a successor to his earlier self-help system, Dianetics. Hubbard characterized Scientology as a religion, and in 1953 incorporated the Church of Scientology in Camden, New Jersey.
Scientology teaches that people are immortal beings who have forgotten their true nature. Its method of spiritual rehabilitation is a type of counselling known as auditing, in which practitioners aim to consciously re-experience painful or traumatic events in their past in order to free themselves of their limiting effects. Study materials and auditing courses are made available to members in return for specified donations. Scientology is legally recognized as a tax-exempt organization in the United States and some other countries, and the Church of Scientology emphasizes this as proof that it is a bona fide religion. In other countries, notably France, Germany and the United Kingdom, Scientology does not have comparable religious status.
A large number of organizations overseeing the application of Scientology have been established, the most notable of these being the Church of Scientology. Scientology sponsors a variety of social service programs. These include the Narconon anti-drug program, the Criminon prison rehabilitation program, the Study Tech education methodology, a volunteer organization, a business management method, and a set of moral guidelines expressed in a booklet called The Way to Happiness.
The Church of Scientology is one of the most controversial new religious movements to have arisen in the 20th century. It has often been described as a cult that financially defrauds and abuses its members, charging exorbitant fees for its spiritual services. The Church of Scientology has consistently used litigation against such critics, and its aggressiveness in pursuing its foes has been condemned as harassment. Further controversy has focused on Scientology's belief that souls ("thetans") reincarnate and have lived on other planets before living on Earth. Former members say that some of Hubbard's writings on this remote extraterrestrial past, included in confidential Upper Levels, are not revealed to practitioners until they have paid thousands of dollars to the Church of Scientology. Another controversial belief held by Scientologists is that the practice of psychiatry is destructive and abusive and must be abolished. Notable Scientologists include many well known people such as Tom Cruise, Greta Van Susteren, Chick Corea, John Travolta, Priscilla Presley and Kirstie Alley.

More about Scientology...






Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



"Trapped in the Closet" is the twelfth episode of the ninth season of the Comedy Central series South Park. It originally aired on November 16, 2005. The plot of the episode centers on the South Park character Stan Marsh, as he joins Scientology in an attempt to find something "fun and free". After the discovery of his surprisingly high "thetan levels", he is recognized as the reincarnation of the founder of the church, L. Ron Hubbard. Isaac Hayes, the voice of Chef, quit the show shortly before the start of the tenth season. The reason for his departure, as reported by Matt Stone, was due to his faith in Scientology and this episode, which—despite initially supporting the show's satirical take on several talk shows—he claimed was very offensive. "Trapped in the Closet" was nominated for an Emmy Award in July 2006, in the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) category in July 2006, but lost to The Simpsons episode "The Seemingly Never-Ending Story". The episode was featured among Comedy Central's list of "10 South Parks That Changed The World", spoofed by Conan O'Brien in the opening segment of the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards, and mentioned in the Scientology critique film, The Bridge.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: AndroidCat



The Church of Scientology is the largest religious organization devoted to the practice and the promotion of the Scientology belief system. The first Scientology church was established in December 1953 in New Jersey by American science-fiction author L. Ron Hubbard, his wife Mary Sue Hubbard, John Galusha and a few others early Dianeticists, although the Hubbard Association of Scientologists International (HASI) had been operating already since 1952 and Hubbard had been selling Scientology books and technology.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In the news

Scientology items from Wikinews


October 19: Exclusive: 'The Scientology Reformation' author examines Tom Cruise and David Miscavige
September 10: ABC News yanks 20/20 investigation of Tom Cruise and Scientology
February 2: Scientology guilty of fraud rules French appeal court
December 2: Australian woman claims Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years









edit  
Selected biography



Leo Joseph Ryan, Jr. (May 5, 1925–November 18, 1978) was an American politician of the Democratic Party. He served as a U.S. Representative from the 11th Congressional District of California from 1973 until he was murdered in Guyana by members of the Peoples Temple shortly before the Jonestown Massacre in 1978. After the Watts Riots of 1965, then-Assemblyman Ryan took a job as a substitute school teacher to investigate and document conditions in the area. In 1970, he experienced life as an inmate in Folsom Prison, while presiding as chairman on the Assembly committee that oversaw prison reform. During his time in Congress, Ryan traveled to Newfoundland to investigate the inhumane killing of seals. Ryan was also famous for vocal criticism of the lack of Congressional oversight of the CIA, and authored the Hughes–Ryan Amendment; the Amendment was dropped after his death. He was also an early critic of L. Ron Hubbard and his Scientology movement and of the Unification Church of Sun Myung Moon. Ryan was the first and only Congressman to be killed in the line of duty, and was posthumously awarded the Congressional Gold Medal, in 1983.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that Elli Perkins, having refused psychiatric care for her schizophrenic son because of Scientology beliefs, was murdered by him (statement pictured)?
...that the Church of Scientology purchased Castle Kyalami, formerly a tourist attraction near Johannesburg, to serve as an advanced Scientology spiritual retreat in South Africa?
...that L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, wrote the story for the 1938 Columbia movie serial The Secret of Treasure Island?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Scientology


► Scientology by country



► Scientology beliefs and practices



► Scientology-related controversies



► Criticism of Scientology



► Free Zone (Scientology)



► Scientology images



► Scientology organizations



► Scientology in popular culture



► Scientology properties



► Scientology publications



► Scientologists



► Scientology and society



► Xenu



► Scientology stubs



► Scientology templates












edit  
WikiProjects


Main project: WikiProject Scientology

Related WikiProjects: Religion • Mythology • Philosophy • Spirituality • Atheism • Holidays • Alternative views  Rational skepticism • Countering systemic bias
What are WikiProjects?








edit  
Selected quote





But of course their doctrine states that the purpose of a suit is to harass, not to win, so from that perspective they hurt us all. They've had a real chilling effect on journalism, both before and after my piece.
— Richard Behar







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Alaska Mental Health Enabling Act
 Battlefield Earth (film)
 Nancy Cartwright
 Hell Is Other Robots
 L. Ron Hubbard
 The Joy of Sect
 The Thriving Cult of Greed and Power
 Trapped in the Closet (South Park)
 A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant
 Xenu


Good articles


 Ali's Smile: Naked Scientology
 Anonymous (group)
 Death of Kaja Ballo
 Bare-faced Messiah
 Beck
 Jason Beghe
 Being Tom Cruise
 Blown for Good
 Tory Christman
 Church of Scientology editing on Wikipedia
 Early life of L. Ron Hubbard
 Jessica Feshbach
 Final Blackout
 Fraser Mansion
 Going Clear (film)
 The Hole (Scientology)
 Hollywood Undercover
 LifeTimes
 Shawn Lonsdale
 Military career of L. Ron Hubbard
 Kendrick Moxon
 New York Rescue Workers Detoxification Project
 Sara Northrup Hollister
 Operation Clambake
 Outrageous Betrayal
 Project Chanology
 The Road to Total Freedom
 Leo Ryan
 Aaron Saxton
 Scientology in Germany
 ScienTOMogy
 Space opera in Scientology
 To the Stars (album)
 To the Stars (novel)
 Typewriter in the Sky








edit  
Main topics





Scientology
Auditing • Beliefs and practices • CCHR • Celebrity • Church of Scientology • Controversies • Dianetics • E-meter • Holidays • Internet • L. Ron Hubbard • Litigation • Narconon • People • Project Chanology • Personality Tests • Pop culture • Psychiatry • Timeline • The Way to Happiness










edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Scientology}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.
Place all articles, by alphabetical order, at the list Wikipedia:WikiProject Scientology/publicwatchlist.
Check the recent changes list to note improvements, other changes or vandalism of articles within the scope of this project.
Article alerts subpage - Monitor article alerts, for more information see Wikipedia:Article alerts
Attention: See Category:Scientology articles needing attention for any articles which may require attention.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed Scientology articles in the Scientology WikiProject.
Stubs: See Category:Scientology stubs and Category:Stub-Class Scientology articles







edit  
Related portals










Education
Mind and Brain
Philosophy
Psychology








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Scientology on  Wikinews 
Scientology on  Wikiquote 
Scientology on  Wikibooks 
Scientology on  Wikisource 
Scientology on  Wiktionary 
Scientology on  Wikiversity 
Scientology on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media

































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Scientology&oldid=644105859"					
Categories: Scientology portalReligion portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 14:32.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.208","walltime":"0.410","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2207,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":116639,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":26848,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  286.394      1 -total"," 49.58%  142.006      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 17.12%   49.028      1 Portal:Scientology/Features"," 15.06%   43.130      2 Template:Columns-list"," 12.50%   35.812     45 Template:Icon","  7.01%   20.067      1 Portal:Scientology/Selected_article/Layout","  6.98%   19.993      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.11%   17.499      1 Template:Top_icon","  4.55%   13.026      1 Template:Category_handler","  3.99%   11.429      1 Template:Purge"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.060","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1772492,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1253","timestamp":"20170212213500","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":49,"wgHostname":"mw1188"});});
