 







Portal:Criminal justice

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The criminal justice portal



Criminal justice is the system of practices, and organizations, used by national and local governments, directed at maintaining social control, deterring and controlling crime, and sanctioning those who violate laws with criminal penalties and rehabilitation. The primary agencies charged with these responsibilities are law enforcement (police and prosecutors), courts, defense attorneys and local jails and prisons which administer the procedures for arrest, charging, adjudication and punishment of those found guilty. When processing the accused through the criminal justice system, government must keep within the framework of laws that protect individual rights. The pursuit of criminal justice is, like all forms of "justice", "fairness" or "process", essentially the pursuit of an ideal. Throughout history, criminal justice has taken on many different forms which often reflect the cultural mores of society.


More about criminal justice...







Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



The Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident was an attempted indecent assault by U.S. Marine Corps Major Michael Brown on a Filipina bartender, V. N., in Okinawa, Japan on November 2, 2002. The case received extensive attention in the Japanese media, especially on Okinawa, and the crime sparked a public debate over the U.S. military presence in Japan, the fairness of the Japanese legal system, and the practices of the Japanese police. The case involved the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the United States and Japan and the U.S.-Japan Status of Forces Agreement, the Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA) between Japan and the United States. On July 8, 2004, after a 19-month trial, Brown was convicted by a Japanese court of attempted indecent assault and destruction of private property and received a one-year suspended prison sentence. Based on this incident and others involving crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in Japan, both countries entered into negotiations aimed at modifying the SOFA in July 2003; however, as of 2007, no changes have been made.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture
















Credit: Library of Congress



The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico is the highest court of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, having the ultimate judicial authority within Puerto Rico to interpret and decide questions of local commonwealth law. It is head of the Judicial Branch of the Government of Puerto Rico, the other branches being the executive branch and the legislative branch. The Supreme Court of Puerto Rico holds its sessions in the city of San Juan.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News

Wikinews Crime and law portal


January 28: German teenager sentenced to six years for stabbing police officer
January 27: Germany to drop 'lese majeste' law
January 26: Czech diplomats secure release of Polish 'terrorist' in Syria
January 20: Germany legalises medical use of cannabis
January 18: Rape-accused Russian political artist Pyotr Pavlensky to seek asylum in France
January 18: Bomb kills at least 50 in Gao, Mali
January 18: Obama commutes whistleblower's sentence: Chelsea Manning to walk free in 120 days
January 17: At least 26 killed in another Brazil prison riot
January 14: Man charged over motorway bridge collapse in Kent, England
January 12: Fort Lauderdale Airport shooting suspect appears in court









edit  
Selected biography


John Martin (born John Martin Scripps, December 9, 1959 – April 19, 1996) was a British serial killer who murdered three tourists — Gerard Lowe in Singapore, and Sheila and Darin Damude in Thailand — with another three unconfirmed victims. He posed as a tourist himself when committing the murders, which made British tabloids nickname him "the tourist from Hell". He cut up all his victims' bodies, using butchery skills he learned in prison, before disposing of them. Martin was arrested in Singapore when he returned there after murdering the Damudes. Photographs of decomposed body parts were shown as evidence during his trial, making it "one of the most grisly" ever heard in Singapore. He defended himself by saying that the death of Lowe had been an accident and that a friend of his had killed the Damudes. The judge did not believe Martin's account of events and sentenced him to death by hanging, making him the first Briton in Singapore to be given the death penalty.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...




...that by using automatic number plate recognition, a CCTV network (cameras pictured) known as ANPR, police in the United Kingdom are able to track the movement of cars in real time and store vehicle movement information for five years?
...that Dr. Chris Hatcher convinced the jury in a capital punishment case without having interviewed the defendant?
...that the mother of IRA prisoner Jackie McMullan chained herself to railings outside 10 Downing Street in London?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Crime


► Crime by city



► Crime by continent



► Crime by country



► Crime by decade



► Crime by type



► Crime by year



► Crime victims



► Crime-related lists



► Crimes



► Criminals



► People acquitted of crimes



► Anti-crime activists



► Bribery



► Crime and children



► Criminal organizations



► Criminal subcultures



► Criminology



► Crime statistics



► Escape



► Evidence tampering



► Extremism



► False evidence



► Fraud



► Gender and crime



► Harassment



► Hate crime



► Illegal occupations



► Criminal justice



► Juvenile delinquency



► Mutilation



► Penology



► People associated with crime



► Crime prevention



► Prison-related crime



► Robbery



► Terrorism tactics



► Theft



► Crime-related timelines



► Vigilantism



► Violent crime



► Whistleblowing



► Crime witnesses



► Crimes against women



► Works about crime



► Crime writers



► Wrongful convictions



► Crime stubs












edit  
WikiProjects




WikiProject Crime and Criminal Biography

Serial Killer task force


WikiProject Law Enforcement
WikiProject Human rights
WikiProject Law
WikiProject Politics
Wikiproject Correction and Detention Facilities


What are WikiProjects?









edit  
Selected quote







He who throws a bomb and kills a pedestrian, declares that as a victim of society he has rebelled against society. But could not the poor victim object: "Am I society?"
— Errico Malatesta







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Assassination of Spencer Perceval
 Beauchamp–Sharp Tragedy
 William Henry Bury
 Elizabeth Canning
 D. B. Cooper
 École Polytechnique massacre
 Disappearance of Natalee Holloway
 Jena Six
 Murder of Dwayne Jones
 Katyn massacre
 Murder of Leigh Leigh
 Malkin Tower
 Assassination of William McKinley
 Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident
 Harvey Milk
 Mutiny on the Bounty
 Nefarious: Merchant of Souls
 Not My Life
 Oklahoma City bombing
 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack
 Red Barn Murder
 Schmerber v. California
 1907 Tiflis bank robbery
 Toa Payoh ritual murders
 The Whistleblower


Featured lists


 List of computer criminals


Good articles


 2000 UEFA Cup Final riots
 2012 Delhi gang rape
 Abergil crime family
 Enrico Alfano
 Awake (TV series)
 Barack Obama assassination plot in Denver
 Barack Obama assassination plot in Tennessee
 Bath School disaster
 Lynn Bomar
 Bella Bond murder case
 Ernest Radcliffe Bond
 John Wilkes Booth
 Case of the Hooded Man
 Cheshire, Connecticut, home invasion murders
 Chicago race riot of 1919
 Seung-Hui Cho
 Matthew Cox
 Death of John Lennon
 Destruction of ivory
 Tiffany Doggett
 Donkey Punch (novel)
 Kidnapping of Jaycee Dugard
 Enron scandal
 Natasha Falle
 Leo Frank
 Germanwings Flight 9525
 Grangegorman killings
 Gruban v Booth
 Murder of Lenford Harvey
 2011 Helmand Province incident
 Honest services fraud
 Murder of Huang Na
 David Irving
 Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum theft
 Ed Jew
 Cris and Cru Kahui homicides
 Kandahar massacre
 Kauhajoki school shooting
 Knife attack on Kevin Lau
 Chandra Levy
 Disappearance of Madeleine McCann
 Byron McLaughlin
 Murder of Selena
 National Action Plan to Combat Human Trafficking
 Lynching of Laura and L. D. Nelson
 No Gun Ri massacre
 Northern Illinois University shooting
 Northwest Airlines Flight 253
 Olympus scandal
 Pine Middle School shooting
 Platte Canyon High School hostage crisis
 Child prostitution
 Public Prosecutor v Taw Cheng Kong
 R v R
 1985 Rajneeshee assassination plot
 Reactions to Kauhajoki school shooting
 Attempted assassination of Ronald Reagan
 Murders of María José Reyes and Juan Duarte
 Death of Jairo Mora Sandoval
 Schenecker double homicide
 September 11 attacks
 She Has a Name
 Murder of Marwa El-Sherbini
 Joran van der Sloot
 Suicide
 Targeted Killing in International Law
 Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World
 María del Luján Telpuk
 Threatening the President of the United States
 Emmett Till
 Murder of Russel Timoshenko
 Mario Ramírez Treviño
 2011 Tucson shooting
 Murder of Udin
 Uherský Brod shooting
 University of Michigan basketball scandal
 Valor por Tamaulipas
 Calogero Vizzini
 Odell Waller
 Westroads Mall shooting
 2014 White House intrusion
 2011 White House shooting
 Brian Williamson
 Martha Wise
 Murder of Robert Eric Wone









edit  
Main topics





Criminology

Schools of thought: Chicago School · Classical School · Conflict Criminology · Environmental Criminology · Feminist School · Frankfurt School · Integrative Criminology · Italian School · Left Realism · Marxist Criminology · Neo-Classical School · Positivist School · Postmodernist School · Right Realism
Theories: Anomie · Differential Association Theory · Deviance · Labeling Theory · Rational Choice Theory · Social Control Theory · Social Disorganisation Theory · Social Learning Theory · Strain Theory · Subcultural Theory · Symbolic Interactionism · Victimology

Crime

Types of crime: Blue-collar crime · Corporate crime · Felony · Juvenile crime · Misdemeanor · Organised crime · Political crime · Public order crime · Public order case law in the U.S. · State crime · State-corporate crime · White-collar crime
Crimes (FBI, Part I): Aggravated assault · Arson · Burglary · Homicide · Larceny-theft · Motor vehicle theft · Rape · Robbery
Other crimes: Assault and Counterfeiting · Disorderly conduct · Domestic violence · Driving under the influence · Drug abuse violations · Drunkenness · Embezzlement · Forgery · Fraud · Gambling · Human trafficking · Prostitution · Sex offense · Vagrancy · Vandalism
Crime data: National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) · National Incident Based Reporting System (NIBRS) · Uniform Crime Reports (UCR)
Criminal law
Criminal procedure: Arrest warrant · Presumption of innocence · Probable cause · Right to silence · Search warrant Terminology: Actus reus · Mens rea




Criminal justice system

Theory: Restorative justice · Retributive justice · Transformative justice

Law enforcement (Police)

Arrest · Arrest warrant · Auxiliary police · Chief of police · Clearance rate · Cold case · Constable · Crime mapping · Crime statistics · Criminal intelligence · Detention of suspects · Highway patrol · International Association Chiefs of Police · Interrogation · Investigations · Law enforcement agencies · Offender profiling · Police officer · Racial profiling · Sheriff

Forensics: Ballistics · Bloodstain pattern analysis · CSI Effect · Computer forensics · Crime scene · DNA analysis · Fingerprinting · Fire investigation · Forensic accounting · Forensic anthropology · Forensic databases · Forensic engineering · Forensic entomology · Forensic genetics · Forensic odontology · Forensic palynology · Forensic pathology · Forensic psychiatry · Forensic psychology · Forensic toxicology · Information forensics · Questioned document examination · Serology · Taphonomy · Vehicular accident reconstruction · Trace evidence
Policing: Community policing · CompStat · Problem-oriented policing
Technology: Automated Fingerprint Identification System · National DNA database


Courts

Adjudication · Appeals ·Arraignment · Bail · Capital punishment · Defense · Disposition · Evidence · Grand jury · Judicial system · Jury · Justice of the Peace · Magistrate · Plea bargain · Prosecution · Sentencing · Trials

Corrections (Penology)

Alternatives to imprisonment · Detention · Deterrence · Jail · Parole · Probation · Prison · Prison reform · Prisoner abuse · Prisoners' rights · Recidivism · Rehabilitation · Retribution · Sex offender · Utilitarianism













edit  
Things you can do




Add {{Portal|Criminal justice}} to the See also section of criminal justice-related articles.
Place the appropriate project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.

Project banners include: {{WP Crime}}, {{WP Criminal}}, {{serial killer}}, and {{WPLE}}


Expand: Credit card fraud, Theresa Knorr, Terry Driver, Marybeth Tinning, Brenda Ann Spencer, Wen Ho Lee
Peer Review: U.S. Capitol shooting incident (1998), Police brutality, Youth Offending Team, New Jersey Transit Police Department, Mumbai Police
Requests: Justina Morley, Impersonating an officer, List of major crimes in the United States, More...
Stubs: Crime stubs, Serial killer stubs, Law enforcement stubs, More stubs...







edit  
Related portals














Anarchism
Genocide
Human rights
Law
Philosophy
Politics
Society
War








edit  
Associated Wikimedia






Criminal justice on Wikinews
News

Criminal justice on Wikiquote
Quotes

Criminal justice on Commons
Images

Criminal justice on Wikisource
Texts

Criminal justice on Wikibooks
Books










What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Criminal_justice&oldid=735008969"					
Categories: Criminal justice portalCriminal justiceLaw portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


FrançaisLietuviųРусскийSvenska 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 18 August 2016, at 03:10.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.360","walltime":"0.509","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2405,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":146035,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":46930,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  342.254      1 -total"," 34.15%  116.878      1 Portal:Criminal_justice/Featured_content"," 32.17%  110.115      3 Template:Columns-list"," 30.97%  106.007      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 28.03%   95.926    111 Template:Icon","  9.10%   31.152      1 Template:Featured_portal","  8.15%   27.881      1 Template:Top_icon","  5.89%   20.153      1 Portal:Criminal_justice/Selected_article/Layout","  5.66%   19.364      1 Template:Category_handler","  4.97%   17.022      9 Portal:Criminal_justice/box-header"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.120","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1767996,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1174","timestamp":"20170213021400","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":604,"wgHostname":"mw1174"});});
