 







Portal:Education

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




Sociology portals: Arts · Anthropology · Community · Culture · Economics · Education · Geography · Gender studies · Globalization · History · Human rights · Internet · Law · Philosophy · Social movements · Social sciences · Social welfare and social work · Society






edit  
The Education Portal



Education encompasses teaching and learning specific skills, and also something less tangible but more profound: the imparting of knowledge, good judgement and wisdom. Education has as one of its fundamental goals the imparting of culture from generation to generation (see socialization). Education is 'to draw out'. This means facilitating realisation of self-potential and latent talents of an individual.
The education of an individual human begins after birth and continues throughout life. Some believe that education begins even before birth, as evidenced by some parents' playing music or reading to the baby in the womb in the hope it will influence the child's development. For some, the struggles and triumphs of daily life provide far more instruction than does formal schooling (thus Mark Twain's admonition to "never let school interfere with your education"). Family members may have a profound educational effect — often more profound than they realize — though family teaching may function very informally; but formality only proves the education outside the family that is also being taught.

Featured education... articles, lists, topics


More about... education and its educators, history, philosophy, psychology, technology







Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Academia is a collective term for the scientific and cultural community engaged in higher education and research, taken as a whole. The word comes from the akademeia just outside ancient Athens, where the gymnasium was made famous by Plato as a center of learning. The sacred space had formerly been an olive grove, hence the expression "the groves of Academe". By extension Academia has come to connote the cultural accumulation of knowledge, its development and transmission across generations and its practitioners. In the 17th century, English and French religious scholars popularized the term to describe certain types of institutions of higher learning. The English adopted the form academy while the French adopted the forms academe and académie.
Some sociologists have divided, but not limited, academia into four basic historical types: ancient academia, early academia, academic societies and the modern university. There are at least two models of academia: a European model developed since ancient times, as well as an American model developed by Benjamin Franklin in the mid-18th century and Thomas Jefferson in the early 19th century.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Gary Cook, USAID



Kindergarten (German, "children's garden") is a name given in many parts of the world to the earliest stage of a child's structured classroom education. Typically this involves 3-6 year olds. In some places kindergarten is part of a formal public or private school system; in others it may merely refer to nursery school (pre-school) or daycare.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
News

Latest education Wikinews


January 21: Detroit teachers stage sickout to protest working conditions as Obama visits
October 28: Time magazine names Ahmed Mohamed to 'Most Influential Teens of 2015'
October 23: Masked man kills two in sword attack at Swedish school
October 4: Several dead in Oregon college shootings
September 22: Texas student Ahmed Mohamed inspires social movement
August 2: Local municipalities in Italy ask taxes from religious schools
April 22: Student kills teacher in Barcelona
March 4: Beverly Hall, indicted public school superintendent, dies aged 68









edit  
Selected educator


Seymour Papert (born March 1, 1928 Pretoria, South Africa) is an MIT mathematician, computer scientist, and prominent educator. He is one of the pioneers of artificial intelligence, as well as an inventor of the Logo programming language (1968), a tool to improve the way that children think about and solve problems.
Pappert developed an interesting and original vision on learning called Constructionism, built upon the work of Jean Piaget (Constructivism). It rethinks how schools should work based on these theories of learning. It also focuses on the impact of new technologies on learning in general and schools as learning organisations in particular.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Quote








“
You are the bows from which your children as living arrows are sent forth.
”





— Kahlil Gibran






...Archive/Nominations


More quotes...






edit  
Glossary



Knowledge: The confident understanding of a subject, potentially with the ability to use it for a specific purpose…
Learning: The process of acquiring knowledge, skills, attitudes, or values, through study, experience, or teaching…
Pedagogy: The art or science of teaching…

List of topics · More Glossary terms...






edit  
Categories


Education (book)
Academic institutions: Universities and colleges • Schools (High schools and secondary schools, Middle schools, Primary and elementary schools)

Alternative education: Education reform • Homeschooling • Religious education • Special education

Education by country: Australia • Brazil • Canada • China • France • Germany • India • Israel • Japan • Korea • Nepal • Pakistan • Russia • Scotland • United Kingdom • United States • Ukraine

Education by subject: Chemical • Language • Legal • Mathematics • Medical • Music • Physics • Public health • Science • Technology • Vocational

Educators: Educational psychologists • Principals and headteachers • Teachers  • University and college presidents

Educational: Administration • Philosophy • Psychology •

General: History of education






edit  
WikiProjects



Education • Education in Australia • Education in Canada • Education in India • Education in Nepal • Education in Pakistan • Alternative education • School Years • Schools • Science and academia • Universities • Deletion sorting/Education









edit  
Did you know...



...that the vote by Stanley Forman Reed to join the majority in Brown v. Board of Education made the ruling unanimous, and helped win public acceptance for the decision?


...that FPT University, a college in Ho Chi Minh City specializing in information technology, became the first private university in Vietnam when it was established in 2006?


...that, after helping enact abstinence-only sex education as a school board member, Colorado state senator Scott Renfroe attempted to amend statewide comprehensive sex ed standards to exempt schools in his native Weld County?


...that City Academy High School in Saint Paul, Minnesota, became the first charter school in the U.S. when it opened its doors to 30 students on September 7, 1992?


...that New York City-born mathematician Judith Roitman serves as the guiding teacher of the Kansas Zen Center?




...Archive/Nominations



Read more...










edit  
Topics





Education by country: Australia • Armenia • Brazil • Canada • China • Cuba • Egypt • France • Germany • Hong Kong, China • India • Israel • Japan • Korea • Nepal • Pakistan • Russia • United Kingdom • United States • More...




Education by subject: Agricultural • Art • Bilingual • Chemistry • Hospitality management • Language • Legal • Mathematics • Medical • Military • Music • Peace • Philosophy • Physics • Reading • Religious • Sail • Science • Sex • STEM • Technology • Vocational • More...




Educational stages: Preschool • Kindergarten • Primary • Secondary • Post-secondary (Vocational, Higher education (Tertiary, Quaternary)) • More...

Books: Purdue University





Alternative education: Autodidacticism • Education reform • Gifted education • Homeschooling • Polymath • Religious education • Special education • More...




General topics: Book • List • Glossary • Philosophy • Psychology • Technology • Stubs • More...









edit  
Things you can do



Join the Education WikiProject - Help work on the tasks list








Education WikiProject and Portal
Here are some Education related tasks you can do:

Focus (top priority) articles: Education, School, Pedagogy, Learning, Lifelong learning, Public school
Refine/polish to FA status: Critical thinking, John Dewey, Educational animation, Educational psychology
Cleanup/Copyedit: Constructivism (learning theory), Distance education, Early childhood education, Philosophy of education, Physical education, Neil Postman, E-Learning, More...
Collaborate: Coordinate with m:Wikiversity (on Meta; also on Wikibooks), Coordinate at the Wikipedia:Education noticeboard based upon Wikipedia:Student assignments, More...
Expand: Princess Nora bint Abdul Rahman University, Queer Pedagogy, Educational software, Educational technology, Glossary of education-related terms (A-C), Higher education, Instructional theory, Learning theory (education), Nursery school (redirect from "Preschool"), Situated learning, Vocational education, Paulo Freire, Friedrich Fröbel, Donald Schön, Lev Vygotsky, Etienne Wenger, Rhodes University, More...
Expert attention: Knowledge Cafe, LogoVisual thinking, Whole language, Reading comprehension, Learning to read,
Merge/Split: Year One (education), Year Two, Year Three, Year Four, Year Five, Year Six, Year Seven, Year Eight, Year Nine, Year Ten, Year Eleven, Year Twelve, Edutainment, Four stages of competence, Intellectual giftedness, Hebbian theory, More...
NPOV: Applied behavior analysis, Bullying, Charter school, Collegiate Network, Direct instruction, Education reform, Gregg Harris, Theory of multiple intelligences, Youth subculture, More...
Requests: Puerto Rico Schools for the 21st Century,12 California Association of Student Leaders, Test-taking strategies, More...
Stubs: Educational research, Mature student, Psychology of learning (merge?), More...
Verify: Add sources to Unreferenced BLPs
Wikify: E-mentoring, MLearning, Community podcast, Basic writing, Interprofessional education More...
Other issues: Experiential education
Note: These articles may overlap with those on Alternative education or other related lists. If you would like to make a change, either do so yourself, or make a suggestion.




view
talk
edit













edit  
Related portals





Culture



Library and information science



Literature



Schools



Society



University



Education in India



Education in Pakistan



Education in Nepal








edit  
Associated Wikimedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species













What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Education&oldid=757546653"					
Categories: Education portalsEducationHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikinewsWikiversity 



Languages


العربيةDeutschEspañolFrançais한국어Bahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתKreyòl ayisyenМакедонскиमराठीNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусскийТатарча/tatarçaУкраїнська中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 31 December 2016, at 08:10.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.240","walltime":"0.546","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2211,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":106497,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6236,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  398.987      1 -total"," 31.64%  126.255      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 14.27%   56.925      1 Portal:Education/Related_portals"," 10.32%   41.180      1 Portal:Education/Intro","  9.33%   37.228      1 Template:Related_portals2","  7.21%   28.781      9 Template:Related_portal_item","  6.78%   27.042      9 Template:Portal_image","  5.99%   23.896     10 Portal:Education/box-header","  5.75%   22.934      1 Portal:Education/Things_you_can_do","  5.40%   21.536      1 Portal:Education/Quotes/Layout"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.052","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2000087,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1177","timestamp":"20170213002746","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":627,"wgHostname":"mw1177"});});
