 







Portal:Freedom of speech

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology










edit  
The Freedom of speech Portal



Areopagitica


Freedom of speech is the political right to communicate one's ideas via speech. The term freedom of expression is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking, receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used. In practice, the right to freedom of speech is not absolute in any country and the right is commonly subject to limitations, as with libel, slander, obscenity and incitement to commit a crime.
The right to freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR). Article 19 of the ICCPR states that "[e]veryone shall have the right to hold opinions without interference" and "everyone shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media of his choice". Article 19 goes on to say that the exercise of these rights carries "special duties and responsibilities" and may "therefore be subject to certain restrictions" when necessary "[f]or respect of the rights or reputation of others" or "[f]or the protection of national security or of public order (order public), or of public health or morals".


More about Freedom of speech...







View new selections below (purge)



edit  
Selected article



Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez, 531 U.S. 535 (2001), was a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States concerning the constitutionality of funding restrictions imposed by the United States Congress. Justice Anthony Kennedy (pictured) wrote the majority opinion in the case. At issue were restrictions on the Legal Services Corporation (LSC), a private, non-profit corporation established by Congress. The restrictions prohibited LSC attorneys from representing clients attempting to amend or challenge existing welfare law. The Court ruled that these restrictions violated the free speech guarantees of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Because LSC facilitated "private" speech—that of its clients—the restrictions did not merely regulate government speech. Further, the nature of how LSC funds are distributed created a public forum, where the government's ability to regulate speech is highly limited. Because the restrictions excluded attempts to affect only a certain type of law, they could not be considered viewpoint-neutral, and the government is prohibited from making such viewpoint-based restrictions of private speech. Reactions to the decision were mixed within political circles, with Republicans and Democrats disagreeing on the propriety of the decision. In academia, there were more critical responses to the Court's holding. Several journals published articles that argued that the use of a 'distortion principle' to decide violations of free speech was unreasonable while others wrote that the Court mishandled the interpretation of the law at issue.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Luca Cremonini, Markus Angermeier



In studying and/or promoting web-technology, the phrase Web 2.0 can refer to a perceived second generation of web-based communities and hosted services — such as social-networking sites, wikis, and folksonomies — which aim to facilitate creativity, collaboration, and sharing between users. The term gained currency following the first O'Reilly Media Web 2.0 conference in 2004.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News




December 13: Detained journalist Mohamed Tamalt dies in Algeria
October 29: Pakistani PM removes Information Minister Pervaiz Rashid
October 3: Indonesian authorities investigate after pornographic film screened on billboard in Jakarta
October 12: Wikinews interviews painter Pricasso on his art and freedom of expression
August 30: Cairo court retrial: Al Jazeera journalists sentenced to three years’ jail

Freedom of speech on Wikinews






edit  
In this month






5 February 1857 – Ratification of the Federal Constitution of the United Mexican States of 1857, establishing individual rights such as freedom of speech; freedom of conscience; freedom of the press; freedom of assembly; and the right to bear arms
8 February 1957 – Death of Zechariah Chafee, an American judicial philosopher, civil libertarian and advocate for free speech
20 February 1943 – Freedom of Speech painting published in The Saturday Evening Post
25 February 2005 – Harriet Freezerring Emancipation Prize awarded to Ayaan Hirsi Ali (pictured) by Cisca Dresselhuys, editor of the feminist magazine Opzij

More anniversaries...








edit  
Selected biography



Howard Allan Stern (born January 12, 1954) is an American radio personality, television host, author, actor, and photographer best known for his radio show, which was nationally syndicated from 1986 to 2005. He gained wide recognition in the 1990s where he was labeled a "shock jock" for his outspoken and sometimes controversial style. Stern has been exclusive to Sirius XM Radio, a subscription-based satellite radio service, since 2006. The son of a former recording and radio engineer, Stern wished to pursue a career in radio at the age of five. While at Boston University he worked at the campus station WTBU before a brief stint at WNTN in Newton, Massachusetts. He developed his on-air personality when he landed positions at WRNW in Briarcliff Manor, WCCC in Hartford and WWWW in Detroit. In 1981, he was paired with his current newscaster and co-host Robin Quivers at WWDC in Washington, D.C. Stern then moved to WNBC in New York City in 1982 to host afternoons until his firing in 1985. He re-emerged on WXRK that year, and became one of the most popular radio personalities during his 20-year tenure at the station. Stern's show is the most-fined radio program, after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued fines to station licensees for allegedly indecent material that totaled $2.5 million. Stern has won Billboard's Nationally Syndicated Air Personality of the Year award eight times, and is one of the highest-paid figures in radio. Stern describes himself as the "King of All Media" for his ventures outside radio. Since 1987, he has hosted numerous late night television shows, pay-per-view events and home video releases. He embarked on a five-month political campaign for Governor of New York in 1994. His two books, Private Parts (1993) and Miss America (1995), spent 20 and 16 weeks respectively on The New York Times Best Seller list. The former was adapted into Private Parts (1997), a biographical comedy film that starred Stern and his radio show staff that earned $41.2 million in domestic revenue. Stern performs on its soundtrack which topped the Billboard 200 chart.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that William Glendon argued successfully before the U.S. Supreme Court that the Nixon Administration could not use prior restraint to prevent printing of the Pentagon Papers (pictured)?
...that the book Beyond the First Amendment argues freedom of speech on the Internet is not easily addressed by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution?
...that prior to authoring Freedom of Expression®, Kembrew McLeod successfully registered the phrase "freedom of expression" as a trademark in the United States?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Freedom of speech


► Freedom of speech by country



► Freedom of speech by continent



► Blacklisting



► Books about freedom of speech



► Censorship



► Free speech activists



► Free speech case law












edit  
Wikiprojects



Main parent WikiProject


WikiProject Freedom of speech


Related projects



Human rights
Internet
Journalism
Law
Media
Politics

What are WikiProjects?








edit  
Selected quote









“
Under our Constitution, free speech is not a right that is given only to be so circumscribed that it exists in principle but not in fact. Freedom of expression would not truly exist if the right could be exercised only in an area that a benevolent government has provided as a safe haven for crackpots. The Constitution says that Congress (and the States) may not abridge the right to free speech. This provision means what it says. We properly read it to permit reasonable regulation of speech-connected activities in carefully restricted circumstances. But we do not confine the permissible exercise of First Amendment rights to a telephone booth or the four corners of a pamphlet, or to supervised and ordained discussion in a school classroom.
”


— Abe Fortas, (Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District, 1969)







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Topics


Freedom of speech
Awards: AAAS Award for Scientific Freedom and Responsibility • Valeriu Boboc Prize • CPJ International Press Freedom Awards • Four Freedoms Award • Geschwister-Scholl-Preis • Gwangju Prize for Human Rights • Hugh M. Hefner First Amendment Award • James Madison Freedom of Information Award • Leipzig Human Rights Award • Muzzle Awards • Norwegian Academy of Literature and Freedom of Expression • PEN/Barbara Goldsmith Freedom to Write Award • PEN/Katherine Anne Porter First Amendment Award • PEN/Newman's Own First Amendment Award • Sakharov Prize • UNESCO/Guillermo Cano World Press Freedom Prize • William J. Brennan Award • World Association of Newspapers' Golden Pen of Freedom Award
Books: Beyond the First Amendment • Cyber Rights • Free Speech, "The People's Darling Privilege" • Freedom of Expression • Net.wars

Free speech activists: Floyd Abrams • Guy Aldred • Michael Gottlieb Birckner • Susan Block • Brenda Brathwaite • Roy W. Brown • Lenny Bruce • George Carlin • Henry Carlisle • Zechariah Chafee • The Confessionals • Ida Craddock • Hossein Derakhshan • David Esrati • John Henry Faulk • Elizabeth Gurley Flynn • Larry Flynt • Heather Ford • Pim Fortuyn • Free Speech League • Mike Godwin • Theo van Gogh (film director) • Emma Goldman • Bennett Haselton • Hugh Hefner • Marjorie Heins • Bill Hicks • Ayaan Hirsi Ali • Abbie Hoffman • William Hone • Zoia Horn • Saad Eddin Ibrahim • Joesoef Isak • Jiang Lijun • Peter Junger • Chris Kempling • Ronald Kidd • Kitty Marion • Howie Klein • Judith Krug • Li Zhi (dissident) • Elijah Parish Lovejoy • Declan McCullagh • John McGovern (politician) • Aaron McGruder • Kembrew McLeod • Irshad Manji • George W. Mavety • Alexander Meiklejohn • Nicholas Merrill • Gregorius Nekschot • Philip Njaru • Rashid Nugmanov • Ursula Owen • Pu Zhiqiang • Marc Randazza • Barney Rosset • Hasan Saltık • Margaret Sanger • Mario Savio • Theodore Schroeder • Fariborz Shamshiri • Shi Tao • Howard Stern • Nadine Strossen • David S. Touretzky • Wang Xiaoning • Grady Ward • Geert Wilders • Rose Witcop • Frank Zappa • Zhou Shuguang
General: Abusive language (law) • Article 14 of the Constitution of Singapore • Birth control movement in the United States • Cartoonists Rights Network, International • Censorship by country • False statements of fact • Free speech fights • Free Speech League • Free Speech Movement • Free Speech Radio News • Free Speech TV • Free speech zone • Freedom of information • Freedom of Speech (painting) • Freedom of speech by country • Freedom of speech in the United States • Freedom of the press in the United States • International Freedom of Expression Exchange • Free speech in the media during the Libyan civil war • Market for loyalties theory • Occupy Oakland • SPEECH Act • The Tully Center for Free Speech • Whistleblower
Organizations: Action for Children's Television • American Society of Magazine Editors • ARTICLE 19 • Canadian Journalists for Free Expression • Center for Media Freedom and Responsibility • Central Committee for Ex-Muslims • Central Council of Ex-Muslims • Chilling Effects • Comic Book Legal Defense Fund • Comic Legends Legal Defense Fund • Committee to Protect Journalists • Croatian Journalists' Association • CryptoRights Foundation • digitalcourage (formerly FoeBuD) • Doha Centre for Media Freedom • Electronic Frontier Foundation • Electronic Frontiers Georgia • European Centre for Press and Media Freedom • Feminists Against Censorship • First Amendment Center • First Amendment Coalition • Foundation for Press Freedom • Free Speech Coalition • Free Speech League • Freedom House • Freedom of the Press (report) • Index on Censorship • Inter American Press Association • International Center for Law and Religion Studies • International Free Press Society • International Freedom of Expression Exchange • International Media Support • International PEN • International Press Institute • Media Legal Defence Initiative • National Coalition Against Censorship • Pacifica Forum • Press Freedom Index • Reporters Without Borders • Save the Internet • Somali Exiled Journalists Association (SEJA) • South East Europe Media Organisation • Southeast Asian Press Alliance • Student Press Law Center • Swedish Publicists' Association • Television Watch • Tunisia Monitoring Group • World Press Freedom Committee






edit  
Recognized content



Featured articles


 Accurate News and Information Act
 Birth control movement in the United States
 Four Freedoms (Norman Rockwell)
 Freedom for the Thought That We Hate
 Fuck (film)
 Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties
 Learned Hand
 Heffernan v. City of Paterson
 Mom and Dad
 Report of 1800
 September Morn
 Smith Act trials of Communist Party leaders
 To Kill a Mockingbird
 United States v. Progressive, Inc.
 The Whistleblower


Featured lists


 CPJ International Press Freedom Awards
 George Orwell bibliography
 Sakharov Prize


Good articles


 1988–94 British broadcasting voice restrictions
 AACS encryption key controversy
 American Civil Liberties Union
 Erwin Arnada
 Article 14 of the Constitution of Singapore
 Asia Bibi blasphemy case
 Beck v. Eiland-Hall
 Beyond the First Amendment
 United States Bill of Rights
 Hugo Black
 Alexandru Bogdan-Pitești
 Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n
 Edward Coke
 Concurrent use registration
 Cream Holdings Ltd v Banerjee
 Cutting the Mustard
 Cyber Rights
 The Daily Stormer
 Mauro De Mauro
 Case of the Dean of St Asaph
 Disneyland with the Death Penalty
 First Amendment to the United States Constitution
 Free Expression Policy Project
 Free Speech Flag
 Free Speech, "The People's Darling Privilege"
 Freedom of Expression (book)
 Freedom of Speech (painting)
 Fucking Machines
 Fundamental rights in India
 Glik v. Cunniffe
 Golos Truda
 Greene v Associated Newspapers Ltd
 Gyles v Wilcox
 John Marshall Harlan II
 Haymarket affair
 Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier
 Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
 Judith Krug
 Langit Makin Mendung
 Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez
 Manifesto of the Sixteen
 McCarthyism
 Microsoft vs. MikeRoweSoft
 Moral rights in United Kingdom law
 Motte v Faulkner
 The New York Times
 Not in Front of the Children
 Obscene Publications Act 1959
 Odex's actions against file-sharing
 Dan Paul
 Oswaldo Payá
 Petition of Right
 PTV (Family Guy)
 Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998
 Pussy Riot
 R v Baillie
 Reed v. Town of Gilbert
 Sex, Sin, and Blasphemy
 Mam Sonando
 Speakers' Corner, Singapore
 Bassem al-Tamimi
 Tax protester constitutional arguments
 Think of the children
 Twitter
 United States v. Alvarez
 Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Nintendo Co., Ltd.
 Dhondup Wangchen
 Weiquan movement
 Woodhull Sexual Freedom Alliance
 YouTube


Featured pictures







File:Streisand Estate.jpg











edit  
Things you can do









Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : Check article requests in Law topics
Assess : Tag article talk pages using {{WikiProject Freedom of speech}}
Cleanup : Check the Special:RecentChangesLinked/Category:Freedom of speech page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles
Collaborate : Expert help may be needed at Category:Freedom of speech articles needing expert attention.
Copyedit : Check Freedom of speech "Article Alerts" for developments in quality to Freedom of speech-related articles for interesting articles to copyedit
Expand : Expand articles in categories including: Freedom of speech and Category:Free speech activists
Featured article candidates : Review Freedom of speech-related articles submitted at Featured Article candidates, especially those at FAC urgents
Good article nominations : Check out articles under review for Good Article candidacy, in the Social sciences and society section
Stubs : Take on project for improvement of one of the Freedom of speech stubs
Update : Update links between sister projects, at Commons:Category:Freedom of speech
Verify : Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability, more specific Freedom of speech related articles, at Articles with topics of unclear notability listing.
Wikify : Wikify links between primary-source-documents and articles from Wikisource:Category:Freedom of speech
Other : Check article deletion discussions listed at Deletion sorting – Law







Cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.







edit  
Related portals





Books



Culture



Current events



Human rights



Internet



Journalism



Law



Literature



Philosophy



Politics



Radio



Society



Supreme Court of the United States



Television



Writing









edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Freedom of speech on Wikibooks 
Freedom of speech on Wikimedia Commons
Freedom of speech on Wikinews 
Freedom of speech on Wikiquote 
Freedom of speech on Wikisource 
Freedom of speech on Wikiversity 
Freedom of speech on Wiktionary 


Manuals and books
Images and media
News
Quotations
Texts
Learning resources
Definitions













































edit  
Wikipedia's portals



All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology



Featured portals
About portals

















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Freedom_of_speech&oldid=764901133"					
Categories: Freedom of speech portalFreedom of speechLaw portalsSociety portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Français 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 11 February 2017, at 16:08.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.428","walltime":"0.650","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4360,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":210442,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":67882,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  457.406      1 -total"," 20.17%   92.277      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 19.81%   90.598      1 Portal:Freedom_of_speech/Recognized_content"," 17.82%   81.500      3 Template:Columns-list"," 15.28%   69.875     88 Template:Icon"," 14.91%   68.204      1 Portal:Freedom_of_speech/Wikipedia's_portals"," 13.14%   60.083      1 Portal:Freedom_of_speech/Related_portals"," 12.53%   57.315      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 10.39%   47.531      1 Template:Portal_navbar_no_header2"," 10.34%   47.310     15 Template:Related_portal_item"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.142","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3515186,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1182","timestamp":"20170213055102","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":80,"wgHostname":"mw1256"});});
