 







Portal:Law of England and Wales

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search


Shortcut:

P:ENGLAW




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Law of England and Wales Portal



The Supreme Court
of the United Kingdom

English law is the legal system of England and Wales, and is the basis of common law legal systems used in most Commonwealth countries and the United States (as opposed to civil law or pluralist systems in use in other countries). It was exported to Commonwealth countries while the British Empire was established and maintained, and it forms the basis of the legal systems of most of those countries. England and Wales are constituent countries of the United Kingdom; Scotland and Northern Ireland have their own legal systems, although in some areas of law there are no differences between the jurisdictions. Whilst Wales has a devolved Assembly, its power to legislate is limited by the Government of Wales Act 2006.
English law is a mixture of common law, legislation passed by the UK Parliament (or subordinate legislation made under delegated authority) and European law. The essence of common law is that it is made by judges sitting in courts, applying their common sense and knowledge of legal precedent (stare decisis) to the facts before them. A decision of the highest appeal court in England and Wales, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, is binding on every other court in the hierarchy. Common law can be altered by Parliament. The oldest statute currently in force is the Distress Act 1267, part of the Statute of Marlborough. Three sections of Magna Carta, originally signed in 1215 and a landmark in the development of English law, are still in force, but they date to the reissuing of the law in 1297. European law applies in England and Wales because the UK is a member of the European Union, and so the European Court of Justice can direct English and Welsh courts on the meaning of areas of law in which the EU has passed legislation. (more about English law...)



Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Gray's Inn is one of the four Inns of Court in London. To be called to the Bar and practise as a barrister in England and Wales, an individual must belong to one of these Inns. Located at the intersection of High Holborn and Gray's Inn Road, the Inn is both a professional body and a place of living and office accommodation (chambers) for many barristers. It is ruled by a governing council called "Pension", made up of the Masters of the Bench (or "Benchers"), and led by the Treasurer, who is elected to serve a one-year term. The Inn is known for its gardens, or Walks, which have existed since at least 1597. Gray's Inn does not claim a specific foundation date; there is a tradition that none of the Inns of Court claims to be any older than the others. Law clerks and their apprentices have been established on the present site since at least 1370, with records dating from 1391. During the 15th and 16th centuries, the Inn grew steadily, reaching its pinnacle during the reign of Elizabeth I. The outbreak of the First English Civil War in 1642 during the reign of Charles I disrupted the systems of legal education and governance at the Inns of Court, shutting down all calls to the Bar and new admissions, and Gray's Inn never fully recovered. Fortunes continued to decline after the English Restoration, which saw the end of the traditional method of legal education. Although now more prosperous, Gray's Inn is still the smallest of the Inns of Court. (more...)
Suggest • More articles...



edit  
Selected biography


Alfred Denning, Baron Denning (1899–1999) was a British soldier, mathematician, lawyer and judge. He studied at Magdalen College, Oxford, although his studies were disrupted by his service in the First World War. He then began his legal career, distinguishing himself as a barrister and becoming a King's Counsel in 1938. He became a judge in 1944 with an appointment to the Family Division of the High Court of Justice and was made a Lord Justice of Appeal in 1948 after fewer than five years in the High Court. He became a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary in 1957 and after five years in the House of Lords returned to the Court of Appeal as Master of the Rolls in 1962, a position he held for twenty years. One of the most publicly known judges thanks to his report on the Profumo Affair, Lord Denning was held in high regard by much of the judiciary, the Bar and the public. In retirement he wrote several books and continued to offer opinions on the state of the common law through his writing and his position in the House of Lords. During his 38 year career as a judge he made large changes to the common law, particularly while in the Court of Appeal. (more...)
Suggest • More biographies...



edit  
Selected case


Greene v Associated Newspapers Ltd is a 2004 decision of the Court of Appeal that governs the use of injunctions against publication in alleged defamation cases. Greene, a businesswoman, sought an injunction against Associated Newspapers Ltd to prevent them publishing alleged links with Peter Foster; while they claimed to have emails showing links, she asserted that they were false. The test at the time for a preliminary injunction in defamation cases was Bonnard v Perryman, where it was established that the applicant has to show "a real prospect of success" at trial. The Human Rights Act 1998 established that judges should consider whether applicants are "more likely than not" to succeed at trial, a test applied to confidentiality cases in Cream Holdings Ltd v Banerjee and the Liverpool Post and Echo Ltd. Greene claimed that the Cream test should be applied rather than the Bonnard test. The Court of Appeal said that defamation was significantly different from breach of confidentiality. While the damage from a breach of confidentiality can never be undone, justifiying a simple test for issuing injunctions, a defamation case that is won vindicates the injured party. Making it easier to grant injunctions in defamation cases would damage the delicate balance between freedom of the press and the right to privacy; as such, despite the Human Rights Act and Cream, Bonnard is still a valid test. (more...)
Suggest • More cases...





edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Leslie Ward ("Spy") in Vanity Fair (1879)



Sir George Jessel, Master of the Rolls 1873–1883, captioned as "The Law"
Suggest • More pictures...



edit  
Selected legislation


The Arbitration Act 1979 (c.42) was an Act of Parliament that reformed arbitration law in England and Wales. Prior to 1979, arbitration law allowed use of the "Case Stated" procedure and other methods of judicial intervention, and the cost and time required for arbitration as a result made England an unpopular jurisdiction. While London was a centre for arbitration in insurance, admiralty and commodities trading, it failed to attract more modern forms of trade. The Act abolished the "Case Stated" procedure and other forms of judicial interference, replacing it with a limited system of appeal; it also allowed parties to agree to limit their rights to appeal to the courts, and gave arbitrators the ability to enforce interlocutory orders. Some academics praised it for bringing English law more into line with that of other nations, others criticised the wording used as unnecessarily complex and hazy. Having been repealed in its entirety by the Arbitration Act 1996, the Act is no longer in force. (more...)
Suggest • More legislation...



edit  
Did you know...


From Wikipedia's "Did You Know" archives:

...that the Digital Switchover (Disclosure of Information) Act 2007 allows social security information to be passed to the BBC?
... that in Re A (Children) (Conjoined Twins: Surgical Separation) an English court permitted the separation of two conjoined twins knowing that one would die?
... that under modern principles of vicarious liability in English law, employers are answerable for the intentional wrongdoings of their employees?
... that when Henry McCardie was a barrister, he often worked so late that his chambers were nicknamed "the lighthouse", as there was light coming from the windows?
... that although John Fortescue listed ten Inns of Chancery, only nine are known?

Suggest • More facts...





edit  
Selected quotation








“
Throughout the web of the English Criminal Law one golden thread is always to be seen, that it is the duty of the prosecution to prove the prisoner's guilt ... No matter what the charge or where the trial, the principle that the prosecution must prove the guilt of the prisoner is part of the common law of England and no attempt to whittle it down can be entertained.
”


— Viscount Sankey, stating the principle of the presumption of innocence in Woolmington v DPP (1935)




Suggest • More quotations...



edit  
Quality content



Featured articles






 Ashford v Thornton
 Norman Birkett, 1st Baron Birkett
 Carucage
 Court of Chancery
 Edward VIII abdication crisis
 William Garrow




 Gray's Inn
 Halifax Gibbet
 Hanged, drawn and quartered
 Marshalsea
 Ordinances of 1311




 Pendle witches
 Privy Council of the United Kingdom
 Samlesbury witches
 Hubert Walter
 Wife selling (English custom)






Featured lists






 Chief Justice of the Common Pleas
 List of county courts in England and Wales




 List of former county courts in Wales




 Master of the Rolls






Good articles






 1990 Strangeways Prison riot
 Arbitration Act 1979
 Bill of Middlesex
 Bribery Act 2010
 Cambridge Water Co Ltd v Eastern Counties Leather plc
 Case of the Hooded Man
 Charitable trusts in English law
 Edward Coke
 Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
 Court of Common Pleas (England)
 Court of King's Bench (England)
 Creation of express trusts in English law
 Cream Holdings Ltd v Banerjee
 Criminal damage in English law
 Cy-près doctrine in English law
 Defective Premises Act 1972
 Alfred Denning, Baron Denning
 Dictum of Kenilworth
 Dr Bonham's Case
 English Poor Laws
 Exchequer of Pleas
 Glanville Davies affair




 Greene v Associated Newspapers Ltd
 Gruban v Booth
 Gyles v Wilcox
 Hale Commission
 Matthew Hale (jurist)
 Patrick Hastings
 Hugh Hickling
 Hunter v Moss
 Inns of Chancery
 Insanity in English law
 John of Tynemouth
 Jones v Kaney
 Leges Henrici Primi
 Lloyd Kenyon, 1st Baron Kenyon
 Limitation Act 1963
 William Murray, 1st Earl of Mansfield
 Mise of Amiens
 Mise of Lewes
 Motte v Faulkner
 Nuisance in English law
 Obscene Publications Act 1959
 Occupiers' Liability Act 1957
 Pepper (Inspector of Taxes) v Hart




 Henry Petre
 Privity in English law
 Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998
 Quistclose trusts in English law
 R v Baillie
 R v Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, ex p Bancoult (No 2)
 R v Secretary of State for Home Affairs, ex p O'Brien
 Reform Act 1832
 Royal Mail Case
 Royal prerogative in the United Kingdom
 Claud Schuster, 1st Baron Schuster
 Secret trusts in English law
 Serjeant-at-law
 Slade's Case
 Statute of Monopolies
 Statute of Uses
 Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973
 Territorial and Reserve Forces Act 1907
 Three certainties
 Tracing in English law
 Trespass in English law
 Trial of Lord George Gordon
 Trustee Act 2000









edit  
Categories


To display further subcategories, click on the "►" symbols












▼ English law‎ (33 C, 209 P)


► English admiralty law‎ (3 P)



► Anglo-Saxon law‎ (1 C, 31 P)



► Bankruptcy in England and Wales‎ (7 P)



► Bar of England and Wales‎ (1 C, 21 P)



► Canon law of the Church of England‎ (1 C, 15 P)



► English case law‎ (15 C, 9 P)



► English civil law‎ (6 C, 25 P)



► Court buildings in England‎ (7 C, 11 P)



► Courts of England and Wales‎ (7 C, 29 P)



► Crime in England‎ (10 C, 11 P)



► English criminal law‎ (7 C, 164 P)



► English defamation law‎ (1 C, 11 P)



► Law enforcement in England and Wales‎ (10 C, 64 P)



► High Shrievalties in England‎ (49 C, 67 P)



► Human rights in England‎ (5 C, 2 P)



► Injunctions in English law‎ (7 P)



► Judiciary of England and Wales‎ (10 C, 27 P)



► English laws‎ (7 C, 46 P)



► English lawyers‎ (8 C, 402 P)



► Legal education in the United Kingdom‎ (1 C, 11 P)



► Legal history of England‎ (10 C, 140 P)



► English legal professionals‎ (7 C, 65 P)



► Law in London‎ (3 C, 8 P)



► Legal organisations based in England and Wales‎ (3 C, 29 P)



► Parliament of England‎ (8 C, 31 P)



► Penal system in England‎ (7 C, 27 P)



► Priest–penitent privilege in England‎ (7 P)



► Privy Council of England‎ (1 C, 3 P)



► Referendums in England‎ (7 P)



► Law schools in England‎ (20 P)



► English legal terminology‎ (1 C, 94 P)



► Trials in England‎ (4 C, 29 P)



► English law stubs‎ (1 C, 184 P)


















▼ English laws‎ (7 C, 46 P)


► Lists of Acts of the Parliament of England‎ (7 P)



► Acts of the Parliament of England‎ (5 C, 185 P)



► Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom concerning England‎ (1 C, 27 P)



► Church of England legislation‎ (14 P)



► Constitutional laws of England‎ (1 C, 17 P)



► Local government legislation in England and Wales‎ (41 P)



► Treaties of England‎ (6 C, 39 P)

















▼ Welsh law‎ (15 C, 14 P)


► Bankruptcy in England and Wales‎ (7 P)



► Bar of England and Wales‎ (1 C, 21 P)



► Court buildings in Wales‎ (3 C, 5 P)



► Crime in Wales‎ (12 C, 8 P)



► High Shrievalties in Wales‎ (16 C, 21 P)



► Human rights in Wales‎ (3 C)



► Welsh laws‎ (6 C, 9 P)



► Legal education in the United Kingdom‎ (1 C, 11 P)



► Legal history of Wales‎ (5 C, 11 P)



► Welsh legal professionals‎ (3 C, 1 P)



► National Assembly for Wales‎ (8 C, 22 P)



► Legal organisations based in England and Wales‎ (3 C, 29 P)



► Penal system in Wales‎ (3 C, 11 P)



► Treaties of Wales‎ (4 P)



► Trials in Wales‎ (2 P)









As England and Wales are part of the United Kingdom, many of the categories in Category:Law in the United Kingdom are also relevant.


Click the "►" below to see all subcategories:





► Law in the United Kingdom














edit  
Topics




Legislative and constitutional system

Constitution •  Parliament •  House of Commons •  House of Lords •  Legislation •  Law enforcement •  Royal Prerogative

Courts and tribunals

Courts of England and Wales •  Supreme Court •  Court of Appeal •  High Court •  Crown Court •  County Courts •  Magistrates' Court •  Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority •  Employment Appeal Tribunal •  Employment Tribunal •  Information Tribunal •  Mental Health Review Tribunal

Judges

Lord Chancellor •  President of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom •  Lord Chief Justice •  Master of the Rolls •  Chancellor of the High Court •  President of the Family Division •  President of the Queen's Bench Division •  Lord Justice of Appeal •  High Court judge •  Judiciary of England and Wales •  Magistrates of England and Wales

Government and state bodies

Ministry of Justice •  Secretary of State for Justice •  Attorney General •  Director of Public Prosecutions •  Crown Prosecution Service •  Her Majesty's Courts Service •  HM Land Registry •  National Offender Management Service (HM Prison Service •  National Probation Service) •  Law Commission •  Office of the Public Guardian •  Tribunals Service •  Administrative Justice and Tribunals Council · Boundary Commissions •  Civil Justice Council •  Information Commissioner's Office •  Judicial Appointments Commission •  Judicial College •  Legal Services Commission •  Sentencing Council •  Youth Justice Board

Lawyers and institutions

Barrister •  Bar Standards Board •  Inns of Court (Gray's Inn, Inner Temple, Lincoln's Inn, Middle Temple) •  General Council of the Bar •  Queen's Counsel •  Solicitor •  Law Society of England and Wales •  Solicitors Regulation Authority •  Legal executive •  Institute of Legal Executives

Legal areas

Administrative law •  Causation •  Civil liberties •  Commercial law •  Company law •  Competition law •  Contract law •  Criminal law •  Estoppel •  Family law •  Frustration •  Insanity •  Insolvency •  Intoxication •  Inquests •  Juries •  Labour law •  Loss of a chance •  Manslaughter •  Marriage •  Misrepresentation •  Mistake •  Murder •  Nuisance •  Police powers •  Privacy law •  Property law •  Provocation •  Right to silence •  Tort law •  Trespass •  Trusts law




edit  
Related portals












Law
Criminal justice
Human rights
United Kingdom
England
Wales








edit  
WikiProjects





WikiProject Law
WikiProject International law
WikiProject Crime and Criminal Biography
WikiProject Law Enforcement
WikiProject Human rights
WikiProject England
WikiProject Wales


What are WikiProjects?






edit  
Things to do




Help out with the WikiProject Law's list of tasks, some of which need input from an English law perspective
Expand a stub article about English law
Write a new article about a topic or person relating to the law of England and Wales – see the list of requested law articles







edit  
Wikimedia




English and Welsh law
on Commons
English and Welsh law
on Wikisource
English and Welsh law
on Wikiversity
Law
on Wikiquote
Law
on Wiktionary
Law
on Wikibooks
Crime and law
on Wikinews


Images & Media
Texts
Learning resources
Quotations
Definitions
Manuals & Texts
News































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales&oldid=644098920"					
Categories: English lawLaw portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 13:23.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.336","walltime":"1.907","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2626,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":113678,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6986,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00% 1746.885      1 -total"," 42.76%  746.886      7 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 16.33%  285.348      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Intro"," 11.39%  198.937      1 Template:Random_subpage"," 10.93%  190.964      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Intro/1","  9.91%  173.081      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Categories","  6.93%  121.064      3 Template:Category_tree_all","  6.70%  117.028      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Quality_content","  6.17%  107.722      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Selected_quotation/Layout","  5.46%   95.411      1 Portal:Law_of_England_and_Wales/Opentask"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.100","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2288195,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1209","timestamp":"20170207031453","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":2043,"wgHostname":"mw1209"});});
