 







Portal:Military of Australia

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism








edit  
The Military of Australia Portal




















The Military of Australia, officially known as the Australian Defence Force (ADF) since 1976, consists of the Royal Australian Navy (RAN), the Australian Army and the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). The Australian Department of Defence administers the Australian Defence Organisation (ADO) which consists of the ADF and the civilian personnel supporting the ADF. Approximately 58,000 men and women serve in the ADF with another 23,000 serving in the three reserve components.
The ADF is constituted under the Executive Government sections of the Australian Constitution, Section 68, that says, "The command in chief of the naval and military forces of the Commonwealth is vested in the Governor-General as the Queen's representative." In practice, the control of the ADF is, politically, vested in the Minister for Defence and several subordinate ministers. The Minister acts on most matters alone, however, important matters are considered by the National Security Committee of Cabinet. The Minister then advises the Governor-General who acts as advised in the normal form of executive government. The current Chief of the Australian Defence Force is Air Chief Marshal Mark Binskin.
The Military history of Australia covers a period of around 220 years starting with the colonisation of Australia by the British in 1788. Australians have fought in nearly every major war of the 20th Century including the Second Boer War, World War I, World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War as well as numerous UN peace-keeping missions and Coalition-based operations including those in Afghanistan and Iraq.
More about the Australian military...



Show new selections below... (purge)



edit  
Selected article



Although Australia was remote from the main battlefronts of World War II, there was considerable Axis naval activity in Australian waters during the war. A total of 53 German and Japanese warships and submarines entered Australian waters between 1940 and 1945 and attacked ships, ports and other targets. Among the best-known attacks are the sinking of HMAS Sydney by a German raider in November 1941, the attack on Darwin in February 1942 and the Japanese midget submarine attack on Sydney Harbour in May 1942. In addition, many Allied merchant ships were damaged or sunk off the Australian coast by submarines and mines. Japanese submarines also shelled several Australian ports and submarine-based aircraft flew over several Australian capital cities.
Suggest • More articles...



edit  
Selected picture



Photo credit: PH3 Chris Holmes USN
HMAS Canberra launching her first Harpoon missile near the Pacific Missile Test Center, Point Mugu, California. Three UH-1 Iroquois helicopters provide aerial coverage of the launching.

Suggest • More pictures...



edit  
Selected quote


In view of the result of attained at the Washington Treaty which, my advisors believe, guarantee peace in the Pacific for some time to come, it is proposed to reduce the establishment of the navy and army, and postpone the expansion of the air force.

— Governor General Henry Forster during the opening of Parliament, 22 June 1922


Suggest • More quotes...



edit  
Selected anniversaries


February 6

1941 - World War II: Australian troops of the 2/4th Battalion enter Benghazi, Libya.
1942 - World War II: First massacre of Australian troops by the Japanese at Laha airfield on Ambon.

Suggest • More anniversaries...



edit  
Did you know...




...that Alick Bryant is believed to have been the youngest Australian soldier to serve during the First World War?
...that AV2767 Crusader (pictured) was the largest ship commissioned into service with the Australian Army during World War II?
...that HMAS Wyatt Earp made an unsuccessful voyage to Antarctica while part of the RAN?

Suggest • Archive...



edit  
New articles



Judge Advocate General (Australia) – 18 January 2016
Air Force Reserve (Australia) – 18 August 2015
Gallipoli Campaign order of battle – 5 May 2013
Search and Rescue Wing RAAF – 4 May 2013
Alan McNicoll – 4 May 2013
Stan Sismey – 1 March 2013
Seahorse Standard – 25 January 2013
Wallaby-class water and fuel lighter – 23 January 2013
RAAF 227 Radar Bunker – 19 January 2013
Boeing C-17 Globemaster III in Australian service – 19 January 2013
HMAS HDML 1324 – 17 January 2013
Bertram-class air-sea rescue boat – 16 January 2013
HMAS HDML 1321 – 16 January 2013
Anti-aircraft defences of Australia during World War II – 15 January 2013
Structure of the Australian Army during World War II – 12 January 2013

Archive...






edit  
News



8 November, 2010 – The Spitfire flown by and remains of Flight Lieutenant Henry Lacy Smith have been found in Normandy. He was killed after being shot down five days after D-Day during World War II.Read more...
16 March, 2010 – The remains of Special Air Service Patrolman Lieutenant Kenneth Hudson and Private Robert Moncrieff have been found after being missing in action since 1966 during the Indonesia–Malaysia confrontation.Read more...
18 February, 2010 – An Australian Defence Force inquiry has backed navy seamen who saved their colleagues before asylum seekers when a boat exploded near Ashmore Reef last year. Read more...
13 February, 2010 – Japan, Australia To Sign Military Logistics Pact-Nikkei. Read more...
30 July, 2009 – The remains of Flying Officer Michael Herbert and Pilot Officer Robert Carver, missing in action (MIA) in Vietnam have been found. They were the last Australian MIA in Vietnam. Read more...
16 January, 2009 – Trooper Mark Donaldson is awarded the Victoria Cross for Australia following his actions in Afghanistan on 2 September 2008. Read more...

Archive...




edit  
Selected biography



Lieutenant General Sir Carl Herman Jess CB, CMG, CBE, DSO (16 February 1884 – 16 June 1948) was an Australian Army officer who served in both World War I and World War II. Jess was born in Bendigo and started his military career in 1899 when he joined the First Victorian Volunteer Cadets. During World War I, he served at Gallipoli and on the Western Front, reaching the rank of brigadier. Jess saw no action in World War II, although he commanded the 6th Division for a short period but was replaced by General Blamey. He became Director of Women's National Services in 1943 and organised the Women's Land Army. He died at the Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital in Melbourne on 16 June 1948 and was cremated with full military honours.
Suggest • More biographies...



edit  
Daily unit


No. 6 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force training and bomber squadron that currently operates General Dynamics F-111 bombers. The Squadron was first formed in 1917 in Yatesbury, England where it served as a training squadron during the World War I. During World War II the squadron saw combat as a light bomber squadron. No. 6 Squadron is currently responsible for training F-111 air crew. Upon completing their training air crew are posted to No. 1 Squadron RAAF. The squadron is currently based at RAAF Base Amberley.
More units...



edit  
Selected equipment



The Australian Light Armoured Vehicle (ASLAV), is an Australian version of the Mowag Piranha. It is a highly mobile, eight wheeled amphibious armoured vehicle used for reconnaissance and surveillance operations. The ASLAV has a range of 600 km with a top road speed of 100 km/h.. ASLAVs have seen operational service with the Australian Army in East Timor and Iraq.
Suggest • More equipment...



edit  
WikiProjects





History of Australia
Military History
Australian military history task force







edit  
Major topics







Army • History
Armoured Units, Army Aviation, Corps, First Australian Imperial Force, Second Australian Imperial Force, Brigades, Cadets, Royal Military College, Enlisted Ranks, Memorial, Officer Ranks, RAR, Regiments, Senior Officers, Regional Surveillance Units, Structure, VC Recipients, Weapons


RAN • History
Admiral of the Fleet, Bases, Cadets, Clearance Divers, Current Ships, Fleet Air Arm, Future, Historic ships, HMAS, Memorial, Patrol Boat Group, Persian Gulf Operations, RANVR, Reserve, Ship classes, Silent Service, WRANS


RAAF • History
Aircraft, Airfield Defence Guards, Bases, Chief of Air Force, Flights, First Tactical Air Force, Ranks, Roulettes, Squadrons, Structure


Special Forces
1st Commando Regiment, 2nd Commando Regiment, 171st Squadron, 200 Flight, Coastwatchers, Special Operations Engineer Regiment, SASR, SOCOMD, Tactical Assault Group, WWII Commando companies, Z Special Unit









edit  
Featured, A-Class and Good content




Featured articles: 1940 Brocklesby mid-air collision • Admiralty Islands campaign • Adrian Cole (RAAF officer) • AHS Centaur • Alan McNicoll • Alexander Pentland • Alister Murdoch • Allan Walters • Arthur Henry Cobby • Attack on Sydney Harbour • Australian contribution to the Battle of Normandy • Australian Defence Force • Axis naval activity in Australian waters • Battle of Arawe • Battle of Arras (1917) • Battle of Bardia • Battle of the Bismarck Sea • Battle of Cape Esperance • Battle of Greece • Battle of Milne Bay • Battle of Kaiapit • Battle of Morotai • Battle of Rennell Island • Battle of Savo Island • Battle of Sio • Battle of Tassafaronga • Battle of Tulagi and Gavutu-Tanambogo • Battle of the Eastern Solomons • Black Friday (1945) • Blair Anderson Wark • Bobby Gibbes • Brian Eaton • Bruce Kingsbury • Cedric Howell • Charles Eaton (RAAF officer) • Colin Hannah • Convoy GP55 • David Evans (RAAF officer) • Edgar Towner • Edmund Herring • Ellis Wackett • Elwyn Roy King • Frank Berryman • Frank Bladin • Frank Headlam • Frank Hubert McNamara • Frederick Scherger • Garnet Malley • George Jones (RAAF officer) • Guadalcanal Campaign • Harry Chauvel • Harry Murray • Hector Waller • Henry Burrell (admiral) • Henry Wells (general) • Henry Wrigley • HMAS Melbourne (R21) • HMS Nairana (1917) • Ian Dougald McLachlan • Invasion of Tulagi (May 1942) • Issy Smith • Iven Mackay • James Newland • James Rowland (RAAF officer) • James Whiteside McCay • Jerry Pentland • Joe Hewitt (RAAF officer) • John Balmer • John Francis Jackson • John Lerew • John Lloyd Waddy • John McCauley • John Treloar (museum administrator) • John Wilton (general) • John Whittle • Landing at Nadzab • Les Holden • Lester Brain • List of Australian George Cross recipients • List of Australian Victoria Cross recipients • Lockheed C-130 Hercules in Australian service • McDonnell Douglas A-4G Skyhawk • McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet in Australian service • McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II in Australian service • Michael Woodruff • Military history of Australia during World War II • Morotai Mutiny • Naval Battle of Guadalcanal • Neil Hamilton Fairley • Nicky Barr • No. 1 Flying Training School RAAF • No. 1 Squadron RAAF • No. 1 Wing RAAF • No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit RAAF • No. 33 Squadron RAAF • No. 34 Squadron RAAF • No. 36 Squadron RAAF • No. 450 Squadron RAAF • No. 77 Squadron RAAF • No. 79 Squadron RAAF • No. 90 Wing RAAF • Operation Kita • Oswald Watt • Otto Becher • Paterson Clarence Hughes • Peter Jeffrey (RAAF officer) • Raymond Brownell • Reg Pollard (general) • Reg Saunders • Richard Williams (RAAF officer) • Roderic Dallas • Roy Dowling • Roy Phillipps • Singapore strategy • Shrine of Remembrance • Stanley Goble • Stanley Savige • Thomas Baker (aviator) • Thomas Blamey • Tom Derrick • Valston Hancock • Victoria Cross for Australia • Walter Peeler • William Bostock • William Brill • William Ellis Newton • William Hely

A Class: 2/18th Battalion (Australia) • Admiralty Islands campaign • Air Combat Group RAAF • Alan Charlesworth • Australian Army during World War II • Australian light destroyer project • Battle of Bita Paka • Battle of Kaiapit • Battle of Kapyong • Battle of Slater's Knoll • Battle of Wau • Boeing C-17 Globemaster III in Australian service • Central Flying School RAAF • Clare Stevenson • Clarence Smith Jeffries • Eric Harrison (RAAF officer) • First Battle of Maryang San • Frank Berryman • Frank Bladin • Frank Lukis • George Alan Vasey • George Julian Howell • George Ingram • George Mackinolty • Battle of Goodenough Island • Henry Petre • Henry Wrigley • Hippolyte De La Rue • Horace Robertson • John Northcott • Joseph Maxwell • Landing at Saidor • Leslie Morshead • Lewis McGee • No. 78 Wing RAAF • No. 81 Wing RAAF • No. 82 Wing RAAF • No. 84 Wing RAAF • No. 86 Wing RAAF • Operation Brevity • Operation Coburg • Operation Crimp • Ordnance QF 25-pounder Short • Percy Herbert Cherry • Percy Statton • Roy Burston • Rupert Downes • Samuel Burston • South West Pacific Area (command) • Sydney Rowell • Teddy Sheean • Tet Offensive • Vernon Sturdee • Wilfred Arthur • William Anderson (RAAF officer) • William McAloney

Good articles: 1940 Brocklesby mid-air collision • 12th Light Horse Regiment (Australia) • 14th/32nd Battalion (Australia) • 1st Armoured Regiment (Australia) • 1st Parachute Battalion (Australia) • 2/14th Battalion (Australia) • 2/18th Battalion (Australia) • 2/31st Battalion (Australia) • 2/48th Battalion (Australia) • 2/9th Battalion (Australia) • 23rd Battalion (Australia) • 27th Battalion (Australia) • 29th Battalion (Australia) • 2nd Battalion (Australia) • 31st/51st Battalion (Australia) • 3rd Division (Australia) • 6th Battalion (Australia) • 61st Battalion (Australia) • 7th Battalion (Australia) • Arthur William Murphy • Australian Army Reserve • Australian Army ship Crusader (AV 2767) • Battle of Amiens • Battle of Chongju (1950) • Battle of Coral–Balmoral • Battle of France • Battle of Gang Toi • Battle of the Hongorai River • Battle of Kranji • Battle of Kujin • Battle of Lone Pine • Battle of Long Khanh • Battle of Pakchon • Battle of Porton Plantation • Battle of the Samichon River • Battle of Sattelberg • Battle of Sungei Koemba • Battle of Suoi Bong Trang • Battle of Suoi Chau Pha • Battle of Yongju • British nuclear tests at Maralinga • Charles Crombie • Charles Read (RAAF officer) • Charles Scherf • Dave Shannon • Demobilisation of the Australian military after World War II • Ernest Albert Corey • Frederick Birks • General Dynamics F-111C • German attacks on Nauru • Gordon Steege • History of the Royal Australian Navy • HMAS Sydney (1934) • Hobart coastal defences • Hughie Edwards • Huon Peninsula campaign • John Hines (Australian soldier) • Len Waters • Les Clisby • Leslie Douglas Jackson • Mary Bell (aviator) • Military history of Australia • Military history of Australia during World War I • Neville McNamara • Nigel Cullen • No. 1 Aircraft Depot RAAF • No. 1 Basic Flying Training School RAAF • No. 1 Long Range Flight RAAF • No. 1 Operational Conversion Unit RAAF • No. 2 Service Flying Training School RAAF • No. 38 Squadron RAAF • No. 457 Squadron RAAF • No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron RAAF • No. 6 Squadron RAAF • No. 71 Wing RAAF • No. 72 Wing RAAF • No. 73 Wing RAAF • No. 75 Squadron RAAF • No. 76 Wing RAAF • No. 77 Wing RAAF • No. 78 Squadron RAAF • No. 79 Wing RAAF • No. 8 Service Flying Training School RAAF • No. 80 Wing RAAF • Operation Bribie • Peter Isaacson • Peter Raw • Peter Roy Maxwell Drummond • Peter Turnbull (RAAF officer) • Richard Minifie • Robert A. Little • Russell Foskett • Second Battle of Passchendaele • Selarang Barracks Incident • Stuart Clarence Graham • Virgil Brennan • Wilfrid Kent Hughes • Australian contribution to the Allied Intervention in Russia 1918–1919





edit  
Categories







Military of Australia
Army • Awards • Bases • Education • Equipment • Installations • Military aviation • Military lists • Personnel • RAAF • RAN • Ranks • Special forces • Weapons • Stubs • Units  • Uniforms



Military history of Australia
Attacks against Australia • Battles • Conscription in Australia • Memorials • Cemeteries  • Second Boer War  • Australia during World War I • Australia during World War II • Australia during the Korean War • Australia during the Vietnam War










edit  
Things you can do



Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
2nd Division (Australia) • 2nd Division (New Zealand) • 4th Division (Australia) • Court martial of Breaker Morant • History of the Royal Australian Navy • Military history of New Zealand • Military history of New Zealand in World War I • Military history of New Zealand during World War II • New Zealand Army • New Zealand in the Vietnam War • Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment • Slouch hat • Uniforms of the New Zealand Army
Requested articles 
15th Brigade (New Zealand) • Auckland Regiment • Canterbury Regiment (currently a redirect) • Otago Regiment (currently a redirect) • Wellington Regiment • 1st Field Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery • 2nd Field Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery • 4th Medium Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery • 6th Light Anti-aircraft Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery • 12th Heavy Anti-aircraft Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery • Battle of Sidon (1941) • Queensland Imperial Bushmen • Queensland Citizen Bushmen • South Australian Imperial Bushmen • South Australian Citizen Bushmen• South Australian Mounted Rifles • Tasmanian Citizen Bushmen • Tasmanian Mounted Infantry • Tasmanian Imperial Bushmen (currently redirect) • Victorian Citizen Bushmen • Victorian Imperial Bushmen • Western Australian Mounted Infantry (currently redirect) • Western Australian Citizen Bushmen • New South Wales Mounted Infantry • New South Wales Citizen Bushmen • 22nd Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery, 2nd/4th Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment • 3rd/6th Battalion, Royal New Zealand Infantry Regiment • No. 83 (Army Cooperation) Wing • No. 16 Army Light Aircraft Squadron • No. 52 Squadron RNZAF • No. 51 Squadron RNZAF • No. 43 Squadron RNZAF • No. 12 Squadron RNZAF • No. 11 Squadron RNZAF • No. 10 Squadron RNZAF • Territorial Force (New Zealand) • CAC/North American Avon Sabre in Australian service • GAF/Dassault Mirage III in Australian service • Lewis Ernest Stephen Barker • Harry Charles Bundock • Frederick Alexander Burrows • Grant Cavenagh • Frederick Hay Christison • John August Clareborough • Jack Kerr Coffey • Bertrand Combes • Combined Arms Training Centre (Australia)• John Craven • Ralph Daly • Charles Stewart Davies • Harold Charles de Low • Francis Plumly Derham • Harold Clive Disher • William Huggett Douglas • Herbert Frederick Henry Durant • Leslie Glanville Howard Dyke • Henry Herrick Edwards • Cyril Maurice Lloyd Elliott • Albert Cecil Fewtrell • Frederick Percy Herbert Fewtrell • Alexander Moore Forbes • Stephen Gilbert Friend • Vivian Harrold Gatliff • Arthur Harry Langman Godfrey • Leonard George Goss • Peter Haddad • William Allan Hailes • Neville Gordon Hatton • Health Services Wing RAAF • William Alexander Henderson • John Hill • Frederick Brock Hinton • Oswald Vick Hoad • Austin Claude Selwyn Holland • Interim Infantry Mobility Vehicle • Maurice Barber Bevan Keating • Douglas Oswald Luke Kitto • Errol Knox • Ian Lillie • John Edward Lloyd • William James Macavoy Locke • Thomas Steane Louch • Leonard Cuthbert Lucas • Daniel Aston Luxton • John Walter Main • Gordon Edward Manchester • James Eric Gifford Martin • Athelsan Markham Martyn • John Maxwell • Patrick Sanfield McGrath • Eric George Henderson McKenzie • Kenneth Alan McKenzie • Douglas Murray McWhae • Charles George N. Miles • Arthur James Mills • Raymond Frederic Monaghan • Gerald Vincent Moriarty • Edward Michael Neylan • Reginald Havill Norman • Francis Roger North • Harry Scott Nurse • David O'Brien • John William Alexander O'Brien • Douglas Paine • William Edward Hill Pascoe • Michael Phelps • Owen Forbes Phillips • Claude Esdaile Prior • Ralph Carlyle Geoffrey Prisk • Beauchamp Worters Pulver • John Herbert Rasmussen • John Dalylell Richardson • John David Rogers • Henry Gordon Rourke • Robert Amos Row • Harry Blamyre Sewell • Colin McOlvin Sharp • Edward Lonergan Sheehan • James Thomas Simpson • Fritz Peter Max Solling • William Howard St. Clair • Noel William Simpson • Robert Mackay Stodart • Roy Buchanan Sutherland • Harold Bourue Taylor • Percy Chamberlin Thompson • Roy Meldrum Thompson • • Walter James Urquhart • Donald Norwood Veron • Eric Lacy Vowles • Roy William Whiston Walsh • Augustine William Wardell • Thomas Edgar Weavers • David Welch • Frank Elwyn Wells • Allan Respen Wendt • John Laurence Whitham • Ernst Morgan Williams • Kenneth Williams • Thomas Rhys Williams • Kenneth Agnew Wills • Robert Emmet Winning • Australia and the Empire Air Training Scheme • Consolidated PBY Catalina in Royal Australian Air Force Service • Roy Gordon
Expansion needed  
2nd Infantry Brigade (New Zealand) • Australian Army Veterinary Corps • Military history of Australia during the Malayan Emergency • 32nd Small Ship Squadron, Royal Australian Engineers • 1st Aviation Regiment (Australia) • 1st Combat Engineer Regiment (Australia) • II Anzac Corps • 5th Division (Australia) • 8th Brigade (Australia) • 11th Division (Australia) • 11th Brigade (Australia) • Alfred Richard Baxter-Cox • Australian military involvement in peacekeeping • Battle of Cape Gloucester • Emile Dechaineux • Harold Farncomb • History of the Australian Army • History of the Royal Australian Air Force • John Baker • John Royston • Lark Force • New Britain campaign • New Guinea campaign • Northern Territory Force • Robert William Rankin • 3rd Division (New Zealand) • Corps of Royal New Zealand Engineers • HMNZS Resolution (A-14) • Military history of New Zealand in Malaysia • New Zealand and Australian Division • New Zealand Mounted Rifles Brigade • New Zealand Rifle Brigade • Survey Motor Boat • List of Royal Australian Air Force aircraft squadrons • List of Australian generals and brigadiers • List of Australian armoured units • Australian Army Artillery Units, World War I • Air Lift Group • Surveillance and Response Group • Combat Support Group RAAF • Aerospace Operational Support Group RAAF • 41 Wing • No. 26 Squadron RAAF • No. 29 Squadron RAAF • Air Movements Training and Development Unit RAAF• Surveillance and Control Training Unit RAAF • No. 386 Expeditionary Combat Support Squadron RAAF • No. 322 Combat Support Squadron RAAF • No. 323 Combat Support Squadron RAAF • No. 324 Combat Support Squadron RAAF• No. 1 Combat Logistics Squadron RAAF • No. 1 Air Terminal Squadron RAAF • No. 3 Airfield Defence Squadron RAAF • New South Wales Mounted Rifles Combat Reserve Wing RAAF • more...
Images needed  
Add an article here!
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Add an article here!
Translation needed 
Add an article here!

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/Australia, New Zealand and South Pacific military history}}





edit  
Associated WikiMedia




The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species














What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




Shortcut to this page: P:ADF


Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Military_of_Australia&oldid=659647800"					
Categories: Military of AustraliaAustralian portalsMilitary and war-related portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 April 2015, at 09:16.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.256","walltime":"0.562","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2524,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":177493,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":26800,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  358.181      1 -total"," 30.01%  107.491      5 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate","  9.01%   32.280      1 Template:Military_browsebar","  8.66%   31.021      1 Portal:Military_of_Australia/Associated_WikiMedia","  7.97%   28.556      1 Template:Hlist","  7.21%   25.816      1 Portal:Military_of_Australia/Featured_content","  6.94%   24.841      1 Portal:Military_of_Australia/Selected_anniversaries/February/February_6","  6.88%   24.654      1 Portal:Military_of_Australia/New_articles_relating_to_the_Military_of_Australia","  6.45%   23.113      1 Template:Featured_portal","  5.41%   19.368      1 Template:Top_icon"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.034","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1290400,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1214","timestamp":"20170206112536","ttl":86400,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":70,"wgHostname":"mw1273"});});
