 







Portal:Military of the United States

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





Main Portal
 
Categories
 
Things you can do







edit  
The Military of the United States




























The military of the United States, officially known as the United States Armed Forces, consists of five of the seven federal uniform services: the United States Army, the United States Marine Corps, the United States Navy, the United States Air Force, and the United States Coast Guard. Approximately 1.4 million personnel are currently on active duty in the military, with an additional 1,359,000 personnel in the seven reserve components. The Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. military is the President of the United States. With a strength of 2.26 million personnel, including reserves, the United States Armed Forces are the second-largest in the world, after the People's Liberation Army of China, and have troops deployed around the globe. As in most militaries, members of the U.S. Armed Forces hold a rank, either that of officer or enlisted, and can be promoted.
State Defense Forces are militia units operating under the sole authority of a state government or governor, and are distinct from the National Guard in that they are not federal military forces. Authorized by state and federal law, State Defense Forces as a whole "may not be called, ordered, or drafted into the armed forces" (of the United States) under 32 U.S.C. § 109 however the subsection further states that individuals serving in the State Defense Forces are not exempt from conscription. Including Puerto Rico, approximately twenty-five states have active State Defense Forces that can be called upon during emergency management and homeland security missions.

The United States Department of Defense (DoD) is the Cabinet organization that controls the U.S. military, headquartered at the Pentagon. The Secretary of Defense also oversees the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, and civilian agencies such as the Inspector General, Defense Intelligence Agency, and the National Security Agency. The DoD is the largest employer in the United States.

The military history of the United States spans a period of over two centuries, during which the United States grew from an alliance of thirteen British colonies without a professional military, to the world's sole remaining military superpower as of 2012.
The history of the United States military begins in civilian frontiersmen, armed for hunting and basic survival in the wilderness that were organized into local militias for small military operations, mostly against Native American tribes but also to resist possible raids by the small military forces of neighboring European colonies.



Show new selections



edit  
U.S. military news






The Black Beret and ACU uniform


Uniform changes by Army uniform board

After polling Army personnel for input, the Army's uniform board has instituted several changes to the Army's attire. First and foremost, the Black Beret will be relegated to the Army's service dress uniform. Velcro is also being made optional for some closures. Soldiers will be provided the chance to sew patches to their uniform.
The beret has been the standard headgear for the Army Combat Uniform since June 2001. The beret is worn on base and for ceremonies while the patrol cap is worn in the field. Soldiers disliked the beret for its nonexistent practical purpose and the redundancy of having to carry both a beret and hat at all times. “The [ACU] signifies a uniform that should be worn in combat or training for combat, yet a beret doesn’t even make the cut on the deployment packing list,” said one NCO. The Army will now issue only one beret to each soldier for a cost savings of $6.5 million over the lifecycle of the ACU.
Soldiers will still wear their berets with their Army Service Uniform. Soldiers are pleased overall with the appearance of the beret on the ASU. The change does not effect Special Forces soldiers such as the Army Special Forces who wear distinctive Green Berets.
Velcro replaced buttons on the digital ACU replacement for the BDU. Velcro was received as being too noisy, messy, and unprofessional looking by early users after the new ACU uniform was adopted by the Army. Soldiers voiced their opposition to velcro to the Army's Uniform board earlier this year prior to the decision.

Sources: AT:Beret going away?,AT:Army dumps Beret,ANS:Velcro optional, Patrol Cap default

News Archive





edit  
Featured article



The Battle of Midway was a naval battle of the Pacific Theater of World War II. It took place from June 4 to June 7, 1942, only one month after the inconclusive Battle of the Coral Sea, and six months after the Japanese Empire's attack on Pearl Harbor that had led to the entry of the United States into World War II. During the battle, the United States Navy defeated a Japanese attack against Midway Atoll, and destroyed four Japanese aircraft carriers in the process. By putting an end to early-war Japanese expansion, permanently damaging Japan's elite carrier force, and allowing the U.S. Navy to seize the strategic initiative, it represented the turning point in the Pacific War, and is widely seen as the most important naval battle of the war.
The Japanese plan of attack on Midway, which also included a secondary attack against points in the Aleutian Islands by a smaller fleet, was a ploy by the Japanese to lure America's few remaining carriers into a trap and destroy them. Doing so would effectively finish off the U.S. Pacific Fleet, and guarantee Japanese naval supremacy in the Pacific until at least late 1943.
More articles...



edit  
Selected pictures



Credit: Staff Sgt. Bennie J. Davis III, Air Force Link
Capt. Christopher Stricklin ejects from the USAF Thunderbirds aircraft before it impacted the ground at an air show at Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho.
More pictures...



edit  
WikiProjects





United States
Military history
United States military history







edit  
Equipment



The GAU-17A machine gun (minigun) is a 7.62mm NATO crew served, six barreled, air cooled, electrically powered weapon. It has a pintle mount, usually aboard a helicopter or ship. It is used in anti-materiel and anti-personnel and close-in air support roles. There are two main variations, the GAUSE-17/A (for ships) and the GAU-17A (for aircraft).
More equipment...



edit  
Units and awards






USS Ranger



USCG Tactical Law Enforcement Badge









More Units and Awards...



edit  
Selected biography



William Tecumseh Sherman (February 8, 1820 – February 14, 1891) was an American soldier, educator and author. He served as a general in the United States Army during the American Civil War (1861–65), receiving both recognition for his outstanding command of military strategy, and criticism for the harshness of the "scorched earth" policies he implemented in conducting total war against the enemy.
Sherman served under General Ulysses S. Grant in 1862 and 1863 during the campaigns that led to the fall of the Confederate stronghold of Vicksburg on the Mississippi River and culminated with the routing of the Confederate armies in the state of Tennessee. In 1864, Sherman succeeded Grant as the Union commander in the western theater of the war.
More biographies...





edit  
Major topics







Army
ACU, Command, Continental Army, Corps of Engineers, Formations, Howitzer, Humvee, National Guard, Reserve, Special Forces, War of 1812


USMC • History
Aircraft squadrons, Banana Wars, Battalions, Commandant, Installations, MAGTF, MCRD, Organization, Pacific War, Reserve, Semper fi, Uniforms


USN • History
Aircraft, American Revolution, Blue Angels, Continental Navy, Fleet Week, Installations, Organization, Pearl Harbor, Reserve, Ships, Uniforms


USAF
Aircraft, Air National Guard, Field Operating Agencies, MPs, Museum, Space Command, SAC, Specialty Code, USAF Academy, Wings


USCG • History
Academy, Air stations, Auxiliary, Equipment, Homeland Security, Missions, Organization, Port Security, Ships, Reserve, SAR, Coast Guard Squadron One










DoD
BRAC, Civil Defense, Black project, Command, DARPA, SecDef, NSA, DIA, The Pentagon, War College


Joint Chiefs
Chairman, Colin Powell, Omar Bradley, Michael Mullen, Vice Chairman


VA
DAV, Facilities, National Cemetery, Organizations, Secretary, VA loan, VBA









edit  
Wikipedia resources



Armed Forces Lists
Army • Marine Corps • Navy • Air Force • Coast Guard • DoD
Historic events • Medal of Honor recipients • Books • Operations • Leaders • Awards • Security clearance terms • Prisons
Historic Timelines
Revolution history • Battles of the Revolution • Civil War events • Battles of the Civil War • Spanish-American War • Philippine-American War • Manhattan Project





Military of the United States of America
DoD • Joint Chiefs • Commands • Army • Marine Corps • Navy Air Force • Coast Guard • National Guard • Military by state
Academies, Awards, Education, Equipment, Hospitals, Installations, Law, Pay, Policies, Research, Stubs, Support organizations
Veterans • Contractors • State Guards • Legislation • Media



Categories


Military history of the United States of America
Wars • Revolution, Barbary Wars, War of 1812, Mexican-American War, Native American Wars, Civil War, Spanish-American War, Banana Wars, Boxer Rebellion, WWI, WWII, Cold War, Korean War, Vietnam, Gulf War, War on Terrorism, Iraq conflict
Battles • Nuclear history • National Battlefields • Memorials











edit  
Associated Wikimedia






U.S. military on Wikinews
News

U.S. military on Wikiquote
Quotes

U.S. military on Commons
Images

U.S. military on Wikisource
Texts

U.S. military on Wikibooks
Books













What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology





 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Military_of_the_United_States&oldid=649229533"					
Categories: Military and war-related portalsUnited States portalsMilitary of the United StatesHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Français中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:07.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.172","walltime":"0.280","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1746,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":90226,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6785,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  174.823      1 -total"," 25.10%   43.880      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 22.65%   39.596      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar"," 21.25%   37.151      1 Template:Hlist"," 15.48%   27.066      1 Portal:Military_of_the_United_States/Header"," 12.74%   22.265      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 11.27%   19.701      1 Template:Top_icon","  8.29%   14.501      1 Template:Category_handler","  5.78%   10.098     11 Template:Box-header","  4.91%    8.577     17 Template:Nowrap"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.029","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1263816,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1181","timestamp":"20170126022238","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":51,"wgHostname":"mw1253"});});
