 







Portal:United States Air Force

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology








 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





edit  
The United States Air Force Portal



The United States Air Force (USAF) is the aerial warfare branch of the armed forces and one of the seven uniformed services of the United States. Initially part of the United States Army as the Army Air Corps, the USAF was formed as a separate branch of the military on September 18, 1947. It was the last branch of the US military to be formed.
The USAF is one of the largest and most technologically advanced air forces in the world, with about 5,573 manned aircraft in service (3,990 USAF; 1,213 Air National Guard; and 370 Air Force Reserve); approximately 180 Unmanned Combat Air Vehicles, 2130 Air-Launched Cruise Missiles, and 450 Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles; and has 330,159 personnel on active duty, 68,872 in the Selected and Individual Ready Reserves, and 94,753 in the Air National Guard. In addition, the Air Force employs 151,360 civilian personnel.
The Department of the Air Force is headed by the civilian Secretary of the Air Force who heads administrative affairs. The Department of the Air Force is a division of the Department of Defense, headed by the Secretary of Defense. The highest ranking military officer in the Department of the Air Force is the Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
More about United States Air Force...



Show new content...


edit  
Picture spotlight






Photo credit: Staff Sergeant Vince Parker, 3 November 2006. USAF photo.
Lock 'n Load
A Load Toad loading an AIM-120 AMRAAM missile.

photo source: Defense Link

Suggest • More featured pictures...





edit  
Article spotlight





Operation Varsity was the airborne component of Operation Plunder, the allied invasion of Germany on 24 March 1945. A total of 1,702 aircraft and 1,320 gliders, including C-46 Commandos, C-47 Skytrains, C-54 Skymasters, CG-4 Wacos, Airspeed Horsas, and General Aircraft Hamilcar dropped 16,607 members of the British 6th Airborne Division and American 17th Airborne Division. The operation was successful in establishing a bridgehead across the Rhine River aiding a wider Allied advance.
Suggest • More featured articles...





edit  
USAF news






A C-130J of the California Air National Guard with its Rolls-Royce AE 2100 turboprop engines.


Service considering retrofitting late-model C-130's with new engines

Summary: The U.S. Air Force is interested in procuring commercial off-the-shelf engines to replace antiquated propulsion systems on C-130 aircraft. At a technology summit in Arlington, Virginia, General Philip Breedlove told of the service's efforts to follow up on the successes of the C-130J upgrade with commercially available fuel efficient engines. Breedlove says the prioritization of use of C-130J's in inter-theater operations for cost savings has tied up logistics. The C-130 also suffers from performance and maintenance issues that have led to the cancellation of the FCS Manned Ground Vehicles program that was unable to fall within weight parameters while maintaining protection requirements. While enhancing the current generation of aircraft, the Air Force is also heading an initiative to develop fuel efficient technologies for the next generation of propulsion systems. the ADaptive Versatile ENgine Technology program seeks to develop an engine that is 30% more efficient than the F119 or F135 engines that power the F-35 Lightning II and F-22 Raptor fifth-generation stealth fighter aircraft. The Versatile, Affordable, Advanced Turbine Engines and Highly Efficient Embedded Turbine Engine programs are also being pursued to develop propulsion technologies for sub-sonic military aircraft.
Source:http://www.airforcetimes.com/news/2011/07/air-force-c-130-replacing-older-engines-072011w/

News Archive






edit  
Aerospace vehicle spotlight



The KC-135 Stratotanker is the primary aerial refueler in the USAF. The aircraft was designed and built by Boeing based on their 367-80 airframe, the same design that lead to their 707 commercial airliner. The aircraft went into production in 1954 and the first operational KC-135 was delivered to the Air Force in 1957. The aircraft is capable of carrying up to 200,000 lbs. (90,700 kg) of fuel and 83,000 pounds (37,600 kg) of cargo.
The Stratotanker has seen extensive service around the world since first being introduced. The aircraft enabled fighters with limited fuel capacity and range to reach targets beyond their normal ability and provided them with the ability to have greater loiter times over target areas. Through the air refueling capability offered by the KC-135 the USAF is able to build and sustain a global logistics network with high efficiency.
The Air Force acquired a total of 732 KC-135, with 505 still in service. With the newest KC-135 now more than 40-years old the USAF is seeking to replace it with a newer tanker. Contract difficulties have slowed the acquisition process however, and the KC-135 will likely continue service for the near future.
Suggest • More featured vehicles...





edit  
Biography spotlight



General George Lee Butler was commander in chief, U.S. Strategic Command, and the last commander of Strategic Air Command.
General Butler was born in 1939 at Fort Benning, Georgia, and graduated in 1957 from Washington-Lee High School in Arlington, Virginia. He earned a bachelor of science degree from the United States Air Force Academy in 1961 and a master's degree in international affairs from the University of Paris in 1967. He completed Squadron Officer School in 1964, Air Command and Staff College in 1970, and Armed Forces Staff College in 1974.
The general was commissioned in June 1961 and received undergraduate pilot training at Williams Air Force Base, Arizona, followed by basic instructor school at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas. He then flew as an instructor pilot in T-33s and also served as an academic instructor at Craig Air Force Base, Alabama, from March 1963 to December 1964.
Suggest • More featured biographies...





edit  
Did you know...?



... that Operation Flaming Dart, was a series of 148 sorties flown on 7 and 11 February 1965? The missions were carried out by units flying F-105 Thunderchief aircraft deployed to Da Nang Air Base. The first wave of 49 sorties targeted a North Vietnamese Army base near Dong Hoi. Viet Cong forces responded by bombing a hotel housing U.S. personnel which in turn led to the second wave of 99 sorties. The second wave was directed at Viet Cong logistics and command and control structures near the Demilitarized Zone.
Suggest • More did you know...





edit  
Quotes




The Air Force comes in every morning and says, 'Bomb, bomb, bomb' … And then the State Department comes in and says, 'Not now, or not there, or too much, or not at all.'






- Lyndon Baines Johnson, 36th President of the United States





Suggest • More quotes...





edit  
USAF topics



The United States Air National Guard
The United States Air Force Reserves
The United States Air Force Auxiliary: The United States Civil Air Patrol
United States Unified Combatant Command
Base Realignment And Closure (BRAC) past and present decisions







edit  
USAF categories








▼ United States Air Force


► Awards and decorations of the United States Air Force



► United States Air Force specialisms



► Civil Air Patrol



► Equipment of the United States Air Force



► United States Air Force exercises



► United States Air Force in fiction



► History of the United States Air Force



► Humanitarian missions of the United States Air Force



► Installations of the United States Air Force



► Judge Advocate General's Corps, United States Air Force



► United States Air Force lists



► United States Air Force military education and training



► United States Air Force personnel



► Projects of the United States Air Force



► United States Air Force publications



► Military ranks of the United States Air Force



► Ships of the United States Air Force



► United States Air Force organization



► United States Air Force images



► United States Air Force stubs











▼ Aviation in the United States


► Aviation in the United States by state



► United States aviation-related lists



► Aviation in Guam



► Aviation in Puerto Rico



► Aviation in the Northern Mariana Islands



► Aviation in American Samoa



► Aviation in the United States Virgin Islands



► American aerobatic teams



► Aerospace companies of the United States



► American aerospace engineers



► Aerospace museums in the United States



► Air ambulance services in the United States



► Air shows in the United States



► Air traffic control in the United States



► Air transportation on the National Register of Historic Places



► United States airbases



► Aircraft manufactured in the United States



► Aircraft manufacturers of the United States



► Airline holding companies of the United States



► Airlines of the United States



► Airports in the United States



► Airships of the United States



► American military aviation



► American aviators



► American aviation businesspeople



► Federal Aviation Administration



► American aviation films



► Gliding in the United States



► Aviation history of the United States



► LORAN-A transmitters in the United States



► LORAN-C transmitters in the United States



► Aviation organizations based in the United States



► Parachuting in the United States



► Aviation schools in the United States



► Aviation in Washington, D.C.










For more USAF categories...





edit  
Things you can do




Military history WikiProject open tasks






Military aviation task force


Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Spanish Air Force • United States Naval Air Station, Wexford, Ireland
Requested articles 
Airborne Reaction Force • Air Logistics Center • Dive Bomber Group • Knockdown aircraft • Military power (aviation) • Mission capable • Operation Stranglehold (currently redirect) • Special Air Mobile Force Group • Technical Order • Air operations in the Korean War
Expansion needed  
Airman's coin • Airstrike • Avord Air Base • Bombing of Chongqing • Company Grade Officers' Council • Jump boot • Landing Zone • Naval air station • Naval Air Station Glenview • Strafing • VS-32 • CVW-1 • CVW-3 • CVW-5 • CVW-7 •CVW-8 • CVW-11 • CVW-14 • CVW-17 • VFA-15 • VFA-32 • VFA-37 • VFA-87 • VFA-103 • VFA-132 • VFA-136 • VFA-137 • VFA-143 • VFA-211 • VFA-213 • VAW-120; COIN Operations •
Images needed  
Add an article here!
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Bomb damage assessment
Translation needed 
Add an article here!

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/Military aviation}}









Military technology and engineering task force


Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Boarding (attack) • Military engineer • Military science • Military sociology • Political warfare
Requested articles 
Digital Army Battle Management System • Military geology • Nuclear detonation detection system • Airborne rappelling • Artillery officer • Battlefield information manager • Blind fighting • Cloak fighting • Combat high • Cornicine • Economics of warfare • Electronic Protection Measures • High-altitude combat • Insertion skills • Line Function Concept • Military bureaucracy • Military linguistics • Military markings • Military reform • Mobile Observation Team • Nuclear monopoly (currently redirect) • Ordnance Company • Penal regiment • Regimental standard • Sonic deception • Soviet Military Encyclopedia • Warrant Ordnance Officer • Troop readiness
Expansion needed  
Arms race • Cadet officer • Combat readiness • Crémaillère • Decoys and dummies • Economy of force • Electronic countermeasures • Force multiplier • Intelligence preparation of the battlefield • Liaison officer • Military brothel • Military doctrine • Military theory • Officer training • Post-Apocalyptic scenarios • Presentation of the flag • Ship's officer • Strategic victory • Tactical formation • Tactical victory • Time On Target • Tribal warrior • Veteran's pension • War dance
Images needed  
Add an article here!
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Bomb damage assessment
Translation needed 
Add an article here!

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/Military science, technology, and theory}}









United States military history task force


Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Defense Threat Reduction Agency • Las Cuevas War • Sexual assault in the U.S. military • 278th Armored Cavalry Regiment • 13th Marine Regiment
Requested articles 
Airborne Reaction Force • Battle of Yellow River • Commando Basic Training Centre • Dogs for Defense • Forward Operating Base Mombasa • Ibis Project • Little Brown Bears • Marine Security Force Bermuda • Maschke Commission • Melrose Air Force Range • Naval Medical Clinic Bermuda • Officer Cadet Training Unit • Operation Classic Resolve • Operation Iron Balance • Personnel Support Activity Detachment Bermuda • Smart acquisition • Special Air Mobile Force Group • Special Methods Training Centre • Standing Consultative Commission • Strategic Consulting International • Udaire Range • Unit of Action (military) • United States Army Electronic Warfare Branch • United States Army Personnel Research Office • United States Army Soldier and Biological Chemical Command • 131st Field Artillery Regiment (United States) • 623rd Field Artillery Regiment (United States) • 26th Brigade Special Troops Battalion • 5217th Reconnaissance Battalion • Bette Bolivar • Khiem Thao • Female Engagement Team • United States School Garden Army • Ralph W. Coane • 533rd Engineer Boat and Shore Regiment • 592nd Engineer Boat and Shore Regiment – Edward James Stackpole (general)
Expansion needed  
James Wiggin Coe • Airman's coin • Battle of Apple River Fort • Battle of Cabin Creek • Battle of Kandahar (2001) • Second Battle of the Marne • Battle of Pigeon Hill • Battle of Pine Creek • Battle of Saint-Mihiel • Battle of San Fabian • Battle of Spokane Plains • Buffalo Grove Massacre • Camp Ashraf • Campobello Island Raid • Camp Virginia • Cavalier Air Force Station • Fort Hunter Liggett • Forward operating base • Forward Operating Base Abu Ghraib • Forward Operating Base Grizzly • Homeless veterans in the United States • Landing at Aitape • Lead Petty Officer • Lex (dog) • Marine Corps Tactical Systems Support Activity • Military History of Asian Americans • Mountain Warfare Training Centre • Naval air station • Naval Computer and Telecommunications Command • Northern France Campaign (1944) • Operation Épaulard I • Operation Killer • Operation Uphold Democracy • Operation Waterfall • Sabine-Southwestern War • St. Vrain Massacre • Search and destroy • Siege of Konduz • Spafford Farm Massacre • Submarine Rescue Diving Recompression System • United States Air Assault School • United States Army Air Defense Artillery School • United States Army Armor School • VFA-132 • VFA-136 • USS Gunason (DE-795) • USS Red Rover • USS Tatum (APD-81) • SS Gopher State (T-ACS-4) • 101st Cavalry Regiment (United States) • 27th Cavalry Regiment • 28th Cavalry Regiment • 49th Infantry Division (United States) • 57th Field Artillery Brigade • 1st Battalion 102nd Field Artillery • 111th Field Artillery Regiment (United States) • 2nd Battalion 28th Marines • 9th Air Refueling Squadron • 1st Squadron, 71st Cavalry Regiment • 75th Cavalry Regiment • 160th Infantry Regiment • 185th Armor Regiment • 785th Military Police Battalion • Anthony T. Kahoʻohanohano • Charles L. Adair • Donald Blakeslee • Eleanor Valentin • Millard Harmon • William Aalto • William D. Swenson • 223rd Infantry Regiment (United States) • 224th Infantry Regiment (United States) • 29th Marine Regiment (United States) • 42nd Military Police Battalion • 723rd Military Police Battalion
Images needed  
Category:Wikipedia requested images of the United States military history
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
1st Battalion 119th Field Artillery • Abu Ghraib prison • 15th Marine Regiment • Battle of Abu Ghraib • Battle of Ouithlacoochie • challenge coin • Clark Veterans Cemetery • Kenneth Bowra • Ming Chang • Sapper Leader Course
Translation needed 
Add an article here!
Tagging needed  
Articles with incomplete B-Class Checklists

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/United States military history}}









World War II task force


Attention needed
...to referencing and citation  • ...to coverage and accuracy  • ...to structure  • ...to grammar  • ...to supporting materials 
Popular pages
Full list
Cleanup needed  
Battle of Kiev (1943) • Battle of Ko Chang • Colditz Castle • Spiritual national defence
Requested articles 
A Force • Battle of Uhtua-Kiestinki • Battles of Repola-Rukajärvi • Battle of Porlammi • Battle of Siiranmäki • Battle of Tuulos • Battle of Łuck • Battle of Równe • Battle of Włodzimierz Wołyński • Battle of Lubartów • Battle of Miedniki • Battle of Jodła • Francis Blanchain • Shinshou Draenger • Christer Lyst Hansen • Holocaust slave labor litigation • Ove Kampman • League for Combat Policy • Frederick Charles Lough • Julien Meline • Operation Rayon • Operation Bigot • Operation Mittelmeer • Operation Richard • Otto Program • Martin Poppel • Roehm's Avengers • Dorothy Tartiere • Poul Bruun • Raoul Boulanger • Serge Asher-Ravanel • Battle of West Ukraine (1941) • Battle of Zunyi • Free Dutch Forces (draft, please assist) • Operation Safari • Liberation of Denmark (currently redirect) • Operation Vado (currently redirect) • German torpedo boat Albatros • Battle of Sidon (1941)
Expansion needed  
Princess Irene Brigade • Battle of Bay of Viipuri • Demilitarisation; Martha Desrumeaux • Mochitsura Hashimoto • Operation Cascade • Operation Tan No. 2 • Burma Area Army • Battle of Courland • Battle of Voronezh (1943) • First Battle of Kharkov • Race to Berlin • Marie Fourcade • Victor Strydonck de Burkel • Donald Blakeslee • Operation Nordwind • Battle of Skerki Bank • Michael Sinclair (soldier) • Battle of Maastricht • Battle of Zeeland • Operation Waterfall • Petsamo–Kirkenes Offensive • American-British-Dutch-Australian Command • more
Images needed  
Twelfth Army (United Kingdom) • 4th Airborne Division (United Kingdom) • 5th Airborne Division (United Kingdom) • XVI Corps (United Kingdom) • Battle of Dakar • Battle of the Lys (1940) • German invasion of Luxembourg • Battle of Zeeland • Battle of the Grebbeberg • A. H. Vedel • Franco-Thai War • Battle of Ko Chang • Switzerland during the World Wars
Merging needed  
Add an article here!
Citations needed  
Add an article here!
Translation needed 
de:Josef Meisinger • nl:Type 5 Na-To • pt:Tobrouk (militar)

visit task force · edit this list
To transclude this list, use {{WPMILHIST Announcements/World War II}}





For more tasks...





edit  
WikiProjects



Wikipedia:WikiProject Military history/United States military history task force

This portal will have close collaboration with the United States Military History task force because of much overlap of goals and resources (people-wise and otherwise). It is not the goal of this portal to decrease the number of active members in the US Military History task force, but rather increase the number of active members by having them participate in this portal also.


Wikipedia:WikiProject United States







edit  
Related portals




















United States

War

World War I Portal

World War II Portal

Cold War

Aviation

NATO

















Military of the United States

United States Army

United States Navy

United States Marine Corps

United States Coast Guard







edit  
Associated Wikimedia





The following Wikimedia sister projects provide more on this subject:

Wikibooks
Books





Commons
Media





Wikinews 
News





Wikiquote 
Quotations





Wikisource 
Texts





Wikiversity
Learning resources





Wikivoyage 
Travel guides





Wiktionary 
Definitions





Wikidata 
Database





Wikispecies 
Species
















What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals






 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:United_States_Air_Force&oldid=649229851"					
Categories: United States portalsMilitary and war-related portalsUnited States Air ForceHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Čeština 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:10.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.220","walltime":"1.105","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2617,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":196489,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":31435,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":8,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  945.190      1 -total"," 44.44%  420.028      6 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 18.89%  178.550      1 Portal:United_States_Air_Force/Things_you_can_do"," 16.56%  156.497      1 Portal:United_States_Air_Force/Categories","  7.58%   71.611      1 Portal:United_States_Air_Force/WikiProjects","  4.24%   40.053      1 Template:WPMILHIST_Announcements/Military_technology_and_engineering","  3.72%   35.145      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar","  3.43%   32.427      1 Template:Hlist","  2.87%   27.164      8 Portal:United_States_Air_Force/box-header","  2.15%   20.369      1 Template:Featured_portal"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.043","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1391818,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1269","timestamp":"20170206173057","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":1212,"wgHostname":"mw1269"});});
