 







Portal:United States Navy

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism









Main page
 
Categories
 
Tasks and Projects



edit  
The United States Navy Portal



Shortcut:

P:USN





The United States Navy (USN) is a branch of the United States Armed Forces responsible for conducting naval operations. Its stated mission is "to maintain, train and equip combat-ready Naval forces capable of winning wars, deterring aggression and maintaining freedom of the seas." The U.S. Navy currently has nearly 500,000 personnel on active duty or in the Navy Reserve and operates 278 ships in active service and more than 4,000 aircraft.
The U.S. Navy traces its origins to the Continental Navy, which was established during the American Revolutionary War and was

disbanded in 1790. The United States Constitution, though, provided the legal basis for a seaborne military force by giving Congress the power "to provide and maintain a navy." Depredations against American shipping by Barbary Coast corsairs spurred Congress to employ this power in 1794 by passing the Naval Act of 1794 ordering the construction and manning of six frigates. The U.S. Navy came into international prominence in the 20th century, especially during World War II. Operating in both the European and Pacific theaters, it was a part of the conflict from the onset of American military involvement from the attack on Pearl Harbor to Japan's official surrender aboard the USS Missouri. The U.S. Navy had a role in the subsequent Cold War, in which it evolved into a nuclear deterrent and crisis response force while preparing for a possible global war with the Soviet Union.
The 21st-century U.S. Navy maintains a sizeable presence in the world, deploying in such areas as East Asia, Southern Europe, and the Middle East. Its ability to project force onto the littoral regions of the world, engage in forward areas during peacetime, and rapidly respond to regional crises makes it an active player in American foreign and defence policy.
More about the USN...





edit  
U.S. Navy news






The craft used by the suspected pirates floats in front of the USS Ashland


Piracy charges dismissed by judge
Original articles by Steve Szkotak, The Associated Press.

Summary: Piracy charges against six Somali's accused of attacking the USS Ashland were dismissed Tuesday after the judge ruled that the U.S. government failed to make a case for piracy. Defense attorneys had argued that the men did not seize or rob the Ashland and therefore not committed piracy. The six were accused of attacking the Ashland, which was destroyed by 25mm fire from Ashland. Seven lesser charges have not been ruled upon. The men claim only to have been ferrying refugees.

Source: http://www.navytimes.com/news/2010/08/ap-navy-ashland-piracy-charges-dropped-081710/

News Archive





Show new content...


edit  
Featured article



The Medal of Honor is the highest military decoration awarded by the United States. It is awarded "for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of life, above and beyond the call of duty, in actual combat against an armed enemy force." Three different medals currently exist for each of the major branches of the U.S. armed forces: one each for the Army, Navy (pictured), and Air Force. Since the beginning of World War II, only 851 have been awarded, 525 of them posthumously. The Medal of Honor is often presented personally to the recipient or, in the case of posthumous awards, to survivors, by the President of the United States. The rare soldier who wears the Medal of Honor is accorded special privileges that include higher pay, supplemental uniform allowance, special entitlements to air transportation, preference for their children at the U.S. military academies, and the respect and admiration of all other service-people. It is an informal rule that Medal of Honor recipients, regardless of rank, are saluted by all other service members, including the Commander-in-Chief. The Medal is one of only two American military awards worn around the neck; the other is the Commander's Degree of the Legion of Merit. The Medal of Honor is the only service decoration that is singled out in federal law to protect it from being imitated or privately sold. All Medals of Honor are issued in the original only, by the Department of Defense, to a recipient. Misuse of the medal, including unauthorized manufacture or wear, is punishable by fine and imprisonment. The Navy Medal of Honor was first awarded to Seaman Benjamin Swearer during the American Civil War and was last officially awarded to Hospital Corpsman 2nd Class David R. Ray, USN for action that occurred during the Vietnam War in 1969.
Suggest • More featured articles...



edit  
Selected picture




The Los Angeles-class attack submarine USS Chicago (SSN-721) glides along at periscope depth.
Photo Credit: Photographer's Mate 1st Class Kevin H. Tierney, USN, Uploaded by:User:Pedant
Suggest • More pictures...







edit  
Equipment



The Virginia class (or SSN-774 class) of attack submarines are the first U.S. subs to be designed for a broad spectrum of open-ocean and littoral missions around the world. They were designed as a cheaper alternative to the Cold War era Seawolf-class attack submarines.
Suggest • More equipment...



edit  
Quotes



"Investigate and shoot down all snoopers — not vindictively, but in a friendly sort of way." — Fleet Admiral William "Bull" Halsey, Jr., USN
More quotes...



edit  
Selected biography


Vice Admiral James Bond Stockdale (December 23, 1923 – July 5, 2005) was one of the most highly decorated officers in the history of the United States Navy. Shot down over enemy territory in 1965, Stockdale was the highest ranking naval officer held as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. He was released in 1973. He was awarded 26 personal combat decorations, including the Medal of Honor and four Silver Stars.
Suggest • More biographies...



edit  
Did you know...?




...that the USS America (CV-66) was scuttled in the Atlantic Ocean in 2005?
...that the naval base at Key West, Florida, was the last U.S. port to berth the USS Maine before an explosion on the ship precipitated the Spanish–American War?
...that Anchors Aweigh is not the official song of US Navy, although there is a pending proposal to make it the official song, and to incorporate protocol into Navy regulations for its performance?
...that the United States' two Lexington-class aircraft carriers were originally intended to be part of a six-ship battlecruiser class?

Archive






edit  
Major topics






Command
Secretary of the Navy, Under Secretary of the Navy, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Chief of Naval Operations, Vice Chief of Naval Operations, Judge Advocate General, Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy


Personnel
Awards, Badges, Chaplain Corps, Enlisted Classification, Enlisted rate insignia, Medical Corps, Dental Corps, Medal of Honor recipients, Navy Band, Nurse Corps, Officer designators, Officer insignia, Ratings, Seabees, Supply Corps, Uniforms


History
Acronyms, Fleet Week, Line-crossing ceremony, Naval Academy alumni, Navy Band, Navy Hymn, Navy Losses in WWII, Navy Song, Ship commissioning, Ship decommissioning








Naval Forces
Fleet Forces Command, Naval Forces Central Command, Naval Forces Europe, Pacific Fleet, Reserve Force, Sealift Command, Special Warfare Command


Structure
Active Units, Air wings, Aircraft Carriers, Aircraft Squadrons, Bases, Current Fleet, Naval Aircraft, Naval Observatory, Naval Reactors, Sealift Command ships, Weapons









edit  
Related Wikiprojects























WikiProject Military history

Maritime warfare task force

US military history task force

Military aviation task force







edit  
Associated Wikimedia









US Navy on Wikinews
News

US Navy on Wikiquote
Quotes

US Navy on Commons
Images

US Navy on Wikisource
Texts

US Navy on Wikibooks
Books













What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:United_States_Navy&oldid=649230639"					
Categories: United States portalsMilitary and war-related portalsUnited States NavyHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


Polski 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:18.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.160","walltime":"0.389","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1927,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":84552,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6886,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  294.379      1 -total"," 25.32%   74.548      4 Template:Random_portal_component_with_nominate"," 12.84%   37.811      1 Portal:United_States_Navy/Header"," 10.70%   31.505      1 Portal:United_States_Navy/Intro","  9.65%   28.418      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar","  9.02%   26.563      1 Portal:United_States_Navy/Categories","  8.86%   26.069      1 Template:Hlist","  7.88%   23.189      1 Template:Featured_portal","  7.03%   20.695      1 Template:Top_icon","  6.55%   19.270      1 Portal:United_States_Navy/TabsBottom"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.040","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1463143,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1240","timestamp":"20170206173344","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":66,"wgHostname":"mw1256"});});
