 







Portal:Schools

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology







edit  
The Schools Portal



A school (from Greek σχολεῖον - scholeion) is an institution designed to allow and encourage students (or "pupils") to learn, under the supervision of teachers. Most countries have systems of formal education, which is commonly compulsory. In these systems, students often progress through a series of schools: primary school, secondary school, and possibly a university, vocational school or a college. There are also non-governmental schools, called private or independent schools. A school may be dedicated to a particular field, such as a school of economics or a school of dance. Alternative schools and democratic education may provide nontraditional methods and curriculum, or no curriculum, as it were. In homeschooling and online schools, teaching and learning take place outside of a traditional school building. The use of the term school varies by country, as do the names of the various levels of education within the country.


More about Schools...







Show new selections



edit  
Selected article



The Presbyterian Ladies' College, Sydney (PLC Sydney) is an independent, Presbyterian, day and boarding school for girls in Croydon, an inner-western suburb of Sydney, Australia. The school has a non-selective enrolment policy for all years but Year 11, and caters for approximately 1,350 girls from age four (Branxton Reception) to age eighteen (Year 12), including 65 boarders. Students attend PLC from all regions of the greater metropolitan area, New South Wales, and overseas.
Established in 1888 by the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church of NSW, PLC is the oldest continuously running Presbyterian Church school in its state. The college is a founding member of the Association of Heads of Independent Girls' Schools and is affiliated with the Association of Heads of Independent Schools of Australia, and the Junior School Heads Association of Australia. PLC is one of two Sydney schools in the Round Square organization. In 2001, The Sun-Herald ranked PLC Sydney fourth in Australia's top ten girls' schools, based on the number of alumni mentioned in the Who's Who in Australia (a listing of notable Australians). Notable alumni include the first qualified female architect in Australia and other pioneering women in education, law, and medicine.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Selected picture
















Credit: User:Ocohen



Harrow School is a public school for boys located in Harrow on the Hill in Middlesex, England. It is one of the original nine English public schools as defined by the Public Schools Act 1868. Harrow has many notable alumni, who are known as Old Harrovians, including seven former British Prime Ministers (including Winston Churchill and Robert Peel), and the first Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru. In addition, nineteen Old Harrovians have been awarded the Victoria Cross.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
In this month


February

1572 – Harrow School is founded under the Royal Charter granted by Queen Elizabeth I to John Lyon, a local farmer.

9th

2001 - American submarine USS Greeneville accidentally strikes and sinks the Ehime-Maru, a Japanese training vessel operated by the Uwajima Fisheries High School.

15th

1905 – Victoria, Australia's first state secondary school, the Melbourne Continuation School, opens with 135 girls and 68 boys. It now exists as Melbourne High School and Mac.Robertson Girls' High School

20th

1944 – The buildings of Thomasschule zu Leipzig in Leipzig, Germany are destroyed during Big Week or Operation Argument as part of the European strategic bombing campaign against the Third Reich during World War II.




...Archive/Nominations










edit  
Wikiprojects




WikiProject Schools

Wikiproject Education • Wikiproject Education in Australia • Wikiproject Education in Canada • Wikiproject Education in Pakistan • Wikiproject Academics • Wikiproject Alternative education • Wikiproject School Years • School and university projects • Deletion sorting/Schools

What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Good articles





Accra Academy
Arlington Senior High School
Auburn High School (Alabama)
Barnard Castle School
Bath School disaster
Benet Academy
Benjamin Franklin High School (New Orleans)
Briarcliff High School
Caulfield Grammar School
Chetham's School of Music
City of London School
Colegio de la Preciosa Sangre de Pichilemu
Direct grant grammar school
Dougherty Valley High School
DuPont Manual High School
Garden City High School (Kansas)
Gordon Parks High School
Hanley Castle High School
Hwa Chong Institution
Johnson Senior High School (St. Paul, Minnesota)
Malvern College
North Community High School
Norwich School (independent school)
Pathlight School
Phillips Exeter Academy Library
Port Charlotte High School
Presbyterian Ladies' College, Sydney
Pūnana Leo
Roswell High School (Georgia)
Royal Grammar School, Guildford
Scarborough Day School
School District 53 Okanagan Similkameen
Stonyhurst College
The Doon School
Theodore Roosevelt High School (Kent, Ohio)
Union City High School
Whitney High School (Rocklin, California)
Wisbech Grammar School
École L'Odyssée










edit  
Selected biography



Mary Jane McLeod Bethune (July 10, 1875--May 18, 1955) was an educator and civil rights leader best known for starting a school for black students that eventually became Bethune-Cookman University. Born in South Carolina to parents who had been slaves, she took an early interest in her own education. With the help of benefactors, Bethune attended college hoping to become a missionary in Africa. When that did not materialize, she started a school for black girls in Daytona Beach. From six students it grew and merged with an institute for black boys and eventually became the Bethune-Cookman School. Bethune worked tirelessly to ensure funding for the school, and used it to exhibit what educated black people could do.



...Archive/Nominations



Read more...







edit  
Did you know...






... that taxpayers of Palenville, New York argued so bitterly over the costs of Rowena Memorial School (pictured) that some called for it to be demolished?


... that the rooflines of the newest school in the Cornwall Central School District mimics the surrounding hills in Cornwall-on-Hudson, New York?


... that Gordon Parks High School, an alternative school, is named after the famous photographer, because he dropped out of education locally in Saint Paul, Minnesota?




...Archive/Nominations


Read more...






edit  
Categories





▼ Schools


► Schools by association



► Schools by city



► Schools by continent



► Schools by country



► Schools by medium of instruction



► Schools by type



► Alumni by secondary school



► Lists of schools



► School accreditors



► Associations of schools



► Awards given to schools



► School boards



► School buildings



► School buses



► School colors



► Defunct schools



► Regional education units



► School districts



► School examinations



► Schools in fiction



► History of schools



► Schools and colleges with Irish names



► School mascots



► School museums



► Patrons of schools



► Schools programs



► Relocated schools



► School sex abuse scandals



► Training ships



► School systems



► Schoolteachers



► School terminology



► School traditions



► School types



► Works about schools



► School images



► School stubs



► Wikipedia categories named after schools






Educational institutions by year of establishment






edit  
Lists



List of schools by country
List of international schools
List of choir schools
List of the oldest schools in the world
List of the oldest schools in the United Kingdom
List of school-related attacks







edit  
Featured content





Amador Valley High School
The Avery Coonley School
Baltimore City College
Eastbourne manslaughter
History of Baltimore City College
The Judd School
Plano Senior High School
School for Creative and Performing Arts
Stuyvesant High School




List of Benet Academy alumni
List of Boston Latin School alumni
List of schools in Cardenal Caro
List of schools in Marlborough, New Zealand
List of schools in the Northland Region
List of Old Guildfordians (Royal Grammar School, Guildford)








edit  
Related portals





Books



Culture



Education



Library and information science



Literature



Science



Society



University










edit  
Topics





Educational stages: Preschool • Kindergarten • Primary • Secondary • More...




Funding: Free education • Private school • Public school • Independent school • Independent school (UK) • Charter school




Style of education: Day school • Alternative school • Democratic education • Parochial school • Boarding school • Magnet school • Virtual school • K-12




Scope: Compulsory education • Comprehensive school • Vocational school • University-preparatory school




Name: College • Elementary school • Grammar school • Gymnasium • High school • Middle school • Primary school • Secondary school • University-preparatory school • University • Vocational school









edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests :

WikiProject Schools/Article requests


Assess :

Assessment requests


Cleanup :

Schools needing cleanup, WikiProject Schools articles to be moved


Copyedit :

Articles in need of emergency, short term attention, Schools articles needing expert attention


Deletion sorting :

WikiProject Deletion sorting/Schools


Infobox :

School articles without infoboxes, UK schools using wrong infoboxes


Maintain :

Portal:Schools


Merge :

School articles to be merged


Photo :

Wikipedia requested photographs of schools


Stubs :

Stub-Class school articles


Other :

Join the project and add {{User WikiProject Schools}} to your talk page. Place the project banner {{WikiProject Schools}} on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project. Read the pages at Wikipedia:Schools for the current discussions on school policy.













edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Education portal on Wikinews    
Education on Wikiquote    
Education bookshelf on Wikibooks    
Schools category on Wikicommons    
Schools category on Wiktionary    
Wikiversity School of Education


News
Quotations
Manuals
Images
Definitions
Learning





























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Schools&oldid=693608221"					
Categories: Education portalsSchoolsSchools portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


DeutschFrançaisРусский 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 3 December 2015, at 17:49.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.212","walltime":"0.336","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2274,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":97467,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":15020,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  222.090      1 -total"," 32.88%   73.034      4 Template:Random_portal_component"," 17.07%   37.917      1 Portal:Schools/Related_portals"," 16.42%   36.468      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 11.75%   26.085      8 Template:Related_portal_item"," 11.30%   25.107      1 Template:Featured_portal"," 10.87%   24.148      8 Template:Portal_image"," 10.08%   22.386      1 Template:Top_icon","  7.69%   17.073      1 Template:Category_handler","  7.13%   15.831      1 Template:Purge"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.053","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1593659,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1246","timestamp":"20170209172809","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":59,"wgHostname":"mw1214"});});
