 








Portal:Society

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




Sociology portals: Arts · Anthropology · Community · Culture · Economics · Education · Geography · Gender studies · Globalization · History · Human rights · Internet · Law · Philosophy · Social movements · Social sciences · Social welfare and social work · Society






edit  
The Society Portal



Social network analysis diagram


A human society is a group of people related to each other through continued relations, or a large social grouping sharing the same geographical or virtual territory, same interests, subject to the same political authority and dominant cultural expectations. Human societies are characterized by patterns of relationships (social relations) between individuals who share a distinctive culture and institutions. A given society may be described as the sum total of such relationships among its constituent members. In the social sciences, a larger society often evinces stratification and/or dominance patterns in subgroups.
In so far as it is collaborative, a society can enable its members to benefit in ways that would not otherwise be possible on an individual basis; both individual and social (common) benefits can thus be distinguished, or in many cases found to overlap. A society can also consist of like-minded people governed by their own norms and values within a dominant, larger society. This is sometimes referred to as a subculture, a term used extensively within criminology: an organized group working together having a common interests, beliefs, or profession.
More broadly, a society may be described as an economic, social, or industrial infrastructure, made up of a varied collection of individuals or subgroups. Members of a society may be from different ethnic groups. A society can be a particular ethnic group, such as the Saxons; a nation state, such as Bhutan; or a broader cultural group, such as a Western society. The word society may also refer to an organized voluntary association of people for religious, benevolent, cultural, scientific, political, patriotic, or other purposes. A "society" may also be a group of social organisms such as an ant colony, or any cooperative aggregate such as, for example, in some formulations of artificial intelligence.


More about society…






View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



Belarus is a landlocked country in Eastern Europe. Its capital is Minsk; other major cities include Brest, Grodno (Hrodna), Gomel (Homiel), Mogilev (Mahilyow) and Vitebsk (Viciebsk). Forty percent of its 207,600 km2 (80,200 sq mi) is forested, and its strongest economic sectors are agriculture and manufacturing. Until the 20th century, the lands of modern day Belarus belonged to several countries.
The parliament of the republic declared the sovereignty of Belarus on 27 July 1990, and following the collapse of the Soviet Union, Belarus declared independence on 25 August 1991. Alexander Lukashenko has been the country's president since 1994. Under his lead and despite objections from Western governments, Soviet-era policies, such as state ownership of the economy, have been implemented. Most of Belarus's population of 9.85 million reside in the urban areas surrounding Minsk and other voblast (regional) capitals. More than 80% of the population are ethnic Belarusians, with sizable minorities of Russians, Poles and Ukrainians. Since a controversial 1995 referendum, Russian has been an official language alongside Belarusian.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured picture








Credit: Photo: Dean Franklin



Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore near Keystone, South Dakota, United States. Sculpted by Danish-American Gutzon Borglum and his son, Lincoln Borglum, it features 60-foot (18 m) sculptures of the heads of former United States presidents (in order from left to right) George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






... that combat medic David B. Bleak was awarded the Medal of Honor in the Korean War after killing five Chinese soldiers, four using only his hands?
... that Dražen Bogopenec was one of the most powerful people of Hum (pictured)?
... that the Lienzo de Quauhquechollan, produced by Nahua artists in the 1530s, is one of the earliest maps of what is now Guatemala?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Anniversaries this month






5 February 1784 - The Asiatic Society (logo pictured) founder Sir William Jones was elected its president, serving until his death in 1794
6 February 1899 - Formation of the American Ceramic Society in Columbus, Ohio by nine members of the National Brick Manufacturer’s Association
11 February 1915 - Wlodimir Ledóchowski elected 26th Superior General of the Society of Jesus
28 February 2002 - Gulbarg Society massacre took place during the 2002 Gujarat riots, when a mob attacked the Gulbarg Society, a Muslim neighbourhood in Chamanpura, Ahmedabad

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected biography



Emmeline Pankhurst (1858–1928) was a political activist and leader of the British suffragette movement. Although she was widely criticised for her militant tactics, her work is recognised as a crucial element in achieving women's suffrage in Britain. She became involved with the Women's Franchise League, which advocated suffrage for women. When that organisation broke apart, she joined the left-leaning Independent Labour Party through her friendship with socialist Keir Hardie. After her husband died in 1898, Pankhurst founded the Women's Social and Political Union, an all-women suffrage advocacy organisation dedicated to "deeds, not words". The group quickly became infamous when its members smashed windows and assaulted police officers. Pankhurst, her daughters, and other WSPU activists were sentenced to repeated prison sentences, where they staged hunger strikes to secure better conditions. Eventually arson became a common tactic among WSPU members, and more moderate organisations spoke out against the Pankhurst family. With the advent of World War I, Pankhurst called an immediate halt to militant suffrage activism, in order to support the British government against the "German Peril". They urged women to aid industrial production, and encouraged young men to fight.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Featured audio




Marcha Real




La marcha real (The Royal March), the National Anthem of Spain, performed by the United States Navy Band. It is one of the oldest national anthems in the world as it was adopted in 1770, though, due to its age, the composer is unknown. It is also one of the few national anthems without words.





...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories



Society






► Society portal





► Society by continent





► Society by nationality





► Sociology





► Fictional society





► Anti-social behaviour





► Business





► Civil society





► Clubs and societies





► Communication





► Corporate groups





► Crime





► Culture





► Disability





► Economics





► Education





► Social events





► Family





► Feminism and society





► Society in fiction





► Folklore





► Health





► Social history





► Home





► Humans





► Inequality





► Social institutions





► Social issues





► Society-related lists







► Mating systems





► Matronymics





► Medicine in society





► Military





► Society museums





► Nationality





► Organizations





► Patronymics





► People





► Philosophy and society





► Politics





► Postindustrial society





► Private law





► Race and society





► Religion and society





► Rural society





► Science in society





► Sexuality and society





► Social change





► Social media





► Social responsibility





► Social sciences





► Social work





► Socioeconomics





► Technology in society





► Water and society





► Wikipedia books on society





► Society portals











edit  
WikiProjects



Related projects






Community
Ethnic groups
Family and relationships
Former countries
Gender Studies





LGBT studies
Literature
Sexology and sexuality
Sociology
Travel and Tourism





What are WikiProjects?






edit  
Selected quote









“
I mean, you go to the Internet and you can see all these conversations and arguments that our fans have about our music and that's wonderful to know, that people would take the time to be that involved.
”


— Alex Lifeson, 1998







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Recognized content



Featured articles


 2012 phenomenon
 W. E. B. Du Bois
 Female genital mutilation
 From The Doctor to my son Thomas
 Fuck (film)
 Fuck: Word Taboo and Protecting Our First Amendment Liberties


Featured lists


 List of awards and nominations received by Penn & Teller: Bullshit!


Good articles


 Timeline of the Egyptian revolution of 2011
 Acting white
 African Americans in Omaha, Nebraska
 Agnosticism
 Anarchism
 Anarchism in Cuba
 Anonymous (group)
 Anti-nuclear movement in Australia
 Archaeoastronomy
 Average Joe
 Balangoda Man
 Before the Dawn (book)
 Birth control
 Black Lives Matter
 Boerehaat
 The Bog People
 Bomis
 A Community of Witches
 Compulsory Miseducation
 Cult film
 Potential cultural impact of extraterrestrial contact
 Culture of the Song dynasty
 Cutting the Mustard
 The Daily Stormer
 Demographics of the Supreme Court of the United States
 Diaphoneme
 Double burden
 Dreamtime (book)
 Émile Durkheim
 EST and The Forum in popular culture
 Ely and Littleport riots of 1816
 Family in advertising
 Family structure in the United States
 Feminism
 Feminist economics
 The finger
 First World
 First interracial kiss on television
 Forensic anthropology
 Free Expression Policy Project
 Fucking Machines
 God's Choice
 Erving Goffman
 Hitachi Magic Wand
 Hooray Henry
 I Ching
 The impact of globalization on women in China
 Insects in culture
 Ivatan people
 Java Man
 Joint custody (United States)
 Ralph Larkin
 Lesbian
 LGBT
 Long hair
 Magic, Witchcraft and the Otherworld
 The Man-Eating Myth
 March of loyalty to martyrs
 Karl Marx
 Josef Mengele
 A More Perfect Union: Advancing New American Rights
 Mork Goes Erk
 No Lifeguard on Duty
 Nonviolent Communication
 Not in Front of the Children
 On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog
 Otaku
 Polyethnicity
 Protests against the Sri Lankan Civil War in Canada
 Proto-globalization
 Racial wage gap in the United States
 Reborn doll
 The Road to Total Freedom
 Romania in the Early Middle Ages
 Royal intermarriage
 Edward Said
 Sex, Sin, and Blasphemy
 Sheng nu
 Social identity theory
 Sociology of leisure
 Sociology
 Stay-at-home dad
 Sustainability
 Team effectiveness
 Think of the children
 Truce term
 Max Weber
 Benjamin Lee Whorf
 Florian Znaniecki


Featured pictures







File:Jane Addams - Bain News Service.jpg








edit  
Things you can do








Here are some tasks awaiting attention:

Article requests : Check article requests in Business and economics topics •  Social sciences topics •  Requested pictures of society topics
Assess : Check article deletion discussions listed at Deletion sorting – Social science
Cleanup : check new articles for cleanup from Sociology-related new article feed
Copyedit : Check Sociology article alerts for interesting articles to copyedit
Expand : Expand articles in categories including: Culture, Law, Education, Politics
Featured article candidates : Review society-related articles submitted at Featured Article candidates, especially those at FAC urgents
Good article nominations : Check out articles under review for Good Article candidacy, in the Social sciences and society section
Maintain : Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles
Stubs : Take on project for improvement of one of the Sociology stubs
Verify : Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability









edit  
Related portals





Arts



Biography



Community



Culture



Death



Education



Freedom of speech



Human rights



Internet



Law



LGBT



Mind and brain



Philosophy



Politics



Religion



Sexuality



Social movements



Sociology



Technology



Writing






edit  
Web resources







Society at DMOZ
Definition of Society from the OED.
Lecture notes on "Defining Society" from East Carolina University.
Internet Modern History Sourcebook: Industrial Revolution
"The Day the World Took Off" Six part video series from the University of Cambridge tracing the question "Why did the Industrial Revolution begin when and where it did."




BBC History Home Page – Industrial Revolution
National Museum of Science and Industry website – machines and personalities
Industrial Revolution and the Standard of Living by Clark Nardinelli - the debate over whether standards of living rose or fell.
Cliff Notes on Types of Societies









edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Society on Wikibooks 
Society on Wikimedia Commons
Society on Wikinews 
Society on Wikiquote 
Society on Wikisource 
Society on Wikiversity 
Society on Wiktionary 


Manuals and books
Images and media
News
Quotations
Texts
Learning resources
Definitions













































What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Society&oldid=649229924"					
Categories: Society portalSocietySociety portalsHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected portalsWikipedia move-protected portalsFeatured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


AlemannischالعربيةАварবাংলাБашҡортсаБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎CatalàCebuanoDeutschEestiفارسیFrançaisFryskGĩkũyũBahasa IndonesiaעבריתKapampanganქართულიҚазақшаKiswahiliLëtzebuergeschМакедонскиNederlandsНохчийнNorsk bokmålNorsk nynorskOccitanਪੰਜਾਬੀPolskiPortuguêsРусскийසිංහලSoomaaligaکوردیی ناوەندیSuomiТатарча/tatarçaTürkçeاردوייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:11.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.404","walltime":"0.621","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3925,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":174684,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":47185,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  468.374      1 -total"," 19.57%   91.667      1 Portal:Society/Featured_articles"," 18.90%   88.514      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 17.83%   83.489      3 Template:Columns-list"," 15.64%   73.259      1 Portal:Society/Subportals"," 15.61%   73.117     96 Template:Icon"," 15.45%   72.365      1 Portal:Society/Categories"," 15.20%   71.207      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 13.26%   62.118     20 Template:Related_portal_item"," 12.64%   59.197     20 Template:Portal_image"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.167","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":5664246,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1244","timestamp":"20170211175347","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":711,"wgHostname":"mw1244"});});
