 






Portal:Systems science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit 
The Systems Science Portal









Complex systems approach


Systems are sets of entities, physical or abstract, comprising a whole where each component interacts with or is related to at least one other component and they all serve a common objective. The scientific research field which is engaged in the interdisciplinary study of universal system-based properties of the world is general system theory, systems science and recently systemics. This field investigates the abstract properties of matter and mind, and their organization, searching for concepts and principles which are independent of the specific domain, substance, and type of system, and of the spatial and/or temporal scales of its existence.
Systems science can be viewed as ... "a metalanguage of concepts and models for interdisciplinary use, still now evolving and far from being stabilized. This is the result of a slow process of accretion through inclusion and interconnection of many notions, which came and are still coming from very different disciplines. The process started more than a century ago, but has gathered momentum since 1948 through the pioneering work of Norbert Wiener, John von Neumann, Ludwig von Bertalanffy, Heinz von Foerster and W. Ross Ashby, among many others" (Charles François, 1999).
More about Systems science...





edit 
Selected article



Management cybernetics is the field of cybernetics concerned with management and organizations. The notion of cybernetics and management was first introduced by Stafford Beer in the late 1950s.
Management cybernetics is the concrete application of natural cybernetic laws to all types of organizations and institutions created by human beings, and to the interactions within them and between them. It is a theory based on natural laws. It addresses the issues that every individual who wants to influence an organization in any way must learn to resolve. This theory is not restricted to the actions of top managers. Every member of an organization and every person who to a greater or lesser extent communicates or interacts with it is involved in the considerations.




...Archive


Read more...






edit 
Selected picture







The Lorenz attractor is a 3-dimensional structure corresponding to the long-term behavior of a chaotic flow, noted for its butterfly shape. The map shows how the state of a dynamical system (the three variables of a three-dimensional system) evolves over time in a complex, non-repeating pattern.
The attractor itself, and the equations from which it is derived, were introduced by Edward Lorenz in 1963, who derived it from the simplified equations of convection rolls arising in the equations of the atmosphere.
Archive...



edit 
Selected systems scientist


Herbert Alexander Simon (June 15, 1916 – February 9, 2001) was an American political scientist whose research ranged across the fields of cognitive psychology, computer science, public administration, economics, management, and philosophy of science and a professor, most notably, at Carnegie Mellon University.
Simon was not only a polymath, but a truly innovative thinker. He was among the founding fathers of several of today's most important scientific domains, including Artificial Intelligence, information processing, decision-making, problem-solving, attention economics, organization theory, complex systems, and computer simulation of scientific discovery. He coined the terms bounded rationality and satisficing, and was the first to analyze the architecture of complexity and to propose a preferential attachment mechanism to explain power law distributions.




...Archive


Read more...






edit 
WikiProjects





Wikipedia:WikiProject Systems
Wikipedia:WikiProject Science
Wikipedia:WikiProject Philosophy
Wikipedia:WikiProject History of Science









edit 
Did you know



...that systems art is an art movement from the 1960s influenced by systems theory, which reflects on natural systems, social systems and social signs of the art world itself?


...that a successful experimental system must be stable and reproducible enough for scientists to make sense of the system's behavior, but unpredictable enough that it can produce useful results?


... that the anthropologist, linguist, and cyberneticist Gregory Bateson's most noted writings are Steps to an Ecology of Mind (1972) and Mind and Nature (1980).


... that a multi-agent system (MAS) is a system composed of multiple interacting intelligent agents, which can be used to solve problems which are impossible for monolithic system to solve.


... that the American systems scientist John Nelson Warfield found systems science to consist of a hierarchy of sciences.

Beginning at the base, with a science of description,
continuing vertically with a science of design,
then a science of complexity,
and next a science of action, called "Interactive management".




... that self-organization is a process of attraction and repulsion in which the internal organization of a system, normally an open system, increases in complexity without being guided or managed by an outside source?



...Archive




edit 
Categories



Systems



Astronomical
Biological
Classification
Conceptual
Dynamical
Economic
Information
Legal
Management
Physical
Political
Social
Software
Technology
Writing





Systems science



Systems biology
Chaos theory
Cybernetics
Systems engineering
Systems theory





Systems scientists



Chaos theorists
Complex systems scientists
Cyberneticists
Systems engineers





Related fields



History of ideas
science
technology






Philosophy of science










edit 
Systems science topics









v
t
e


Subfields of and scientists involved in cybernetics






Subfields



Polycontexturality
Second-order cybernetics
Catastrophe theory
Connectionism
Control theory
Decision theory
Information theory
Semiotics
Synergetics
Biological cybernetics
Biosemiotics
Biomedical cybernetics
Biorobotics
Computational neuroscience
Homeostasis
Management cybernetics
Medical cybernetics
Neurocybernetics
Sociocybernetics
Emergence
Artificial intelligence








Cyberneticists



Igor Aleksander
William Ross Ashby
Anthony Stafford Beer
Claude Bernard
Ludwig von Bertalanffy
Valentin Braitenberg
Gordon S. Brown
Walter Bradford Cannon
Heinz von Foerster
Charles François
Jay Wright Forrester
Jacque Fresco
Buckminster Fuller
Ernst von Glasersfeld
Pyotr Grigorenko
Francis Heylighen
Erich von Holst
Cliff Joslyn
Stuart Kauffman
Sergei P. Kurdyumov
Niklas Luhmann
Warren McCulloch
Humberto Maturana
Talcott Parsons
Gordon Pask
Walter Pitts
Alfred Radcliffe-Brown
Robert Trappl
Valentin Turchin
Jakob von Uexküll
Francisco Varela
Frederic Vester
Charles Geoffrey Vickers
Stuart Umpleby
John N. Warfield
William Grey Walter
Kevin Warwick
Norbert Wiener
Anthony Wilden












v
t
e


Systems  ·  Systems science






Systems
types



Anatomical
Art
Biological
Complex
Complex adaptive
Conceptual
Coupled human–environment
Database
Dynamical
Ecological
Economic
Energy
Formal
Global Positioning
Holarchic
Information
Legal
Measurement
Metric
Multi-agent
Nervous
Nonlinear
Operating
Physical
Planetary
Political
Sensory
Social
Star
Writing








Theoretical
fields







Chaos theory
Complex systems
Control theory
Cybernetics
Earth system science
Living systems
Sociotechnical system
Systemics
Urban metabolism
World-systems theory








Systems ...



analysis
biology
dynamics
ecology
engineering
neuroscience
psychology
science
theory
thinking











Systems
scientists



Russell L. Ackoff
William Ross Ashby
Béla H. Bánáthy
Gregory Bateson
Anthony Stafford Beer
Richard E. Bellman
Ludwig von Bertalanffy
Kenneth E. Boulding
Murray Bowen
C. West Churchman
George Dantzig
Heinz von Foerster
Jay Wright Forrester
Charles A S Hall
James J. Kay
George Klir
Edward Norton Lorenz
Niklas Luhmann
Humberto Maturana
Margaret Mead
Donella Meadows
Mihajlo D. Mesarovic
James Grier Miller
Howard T. Odum
Talcott Parsons
Ilya Prigogine
Qian Xuesen
Anatol Rapoport
Peter Senge
Claude Shannon
Francisco Varela
Kevin Warwick
Norbert Wiener
Anthony Wilden








 Categories



Systems

conceptual
physical
social


Systems science











 Systems science portal










edit 
Things you can do



Help out by participating in the Wikiproject Systems or join the discussion.





edit 
Associated Wikimedia




Science portal on Wikinews    
Systems scientists on Wikiquote    
Systems on Wikibooks    
Systems on Wikicommons    
Systems theory on Wiktionary    
Wikiversity School of Science


News
Quotations
Manuals
Images
Definitions
Learning


























Science
 History of science    Philosophy of science    Systems science    Mathematics    Biology    Chemistry    Physics    Earth sciences    Technology   



What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache




 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Systems_science&oldid=644107796"					
Categories: Systems science portalScience portalsSystems scienceSystems 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


සිංහල 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 25 January 2015, at 14:52.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.176","walltime":"0.285","ppvisitednodes":{"value":852,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":76334,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3487,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":7,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  187.156      1 -total"," 26.56%   49.703      3 Template:Random_portal_component"," 24.14%   45.175      1 Portal:Systems_science/Topics"," 20.46%   38.290      1 Portal:Systems_science/Categories"," 19.88%   37.202      3 Template:Navbox"," 14.99%   28.062      1 Template:Systems","  7.78%   14.566      5 Template:Hlist","  6.02%   11.258      1 Template:Cybernetics","  5.17%    9.679      1 Template:Portal-inline","  5.12%    9.584      1 Portal:Systems_science/Wikimedia"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.043","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1485766,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1268","timestamp":"20170205011856","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":55,"wgHostname":"mw1214"});});
