 







Portal:Supreme Court of the United States

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search





Shortcut:

P:SCOTUS




Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
Supreme Court of the United States Portal



U.S. Supreme Court building


The Supreme Court of the United States is the highest judicial body in the United States and leads the judicial branch of the United States federal government. The Justices are nominated by the President and confirmed with the "advice and consent" of the Senate. They are appointed to serve "during good behavior," which means for life, and leave office only upon death, retirement, resignation, or impeachment and subsequent conviction. The Supreme Court holds both original and appellate jurisdiction, with its appellate jurisdiction accounting for most of the Court's caseload. The Supreme Court meets in Washington, D.C., in the United States Supreme Court building. The Court's yearly terms usually start on the first Monday in October and finish sometime during the following June or July. Each term consists of alternating two week intervals. During the first interval, the court is in session and hears cases, and during the second interval, the court is recessed to consider and write opinions on cases they have heard.


More about the Supreme Court of the United States...






Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



Taylor v. Beckham, 178 U.S. 610 (1900), was a case heard before the Supreme Court of the United States on April 30 and May 1, 1900, to decide the outcome of the disputed Kentucky gubernatorial election of 1899. Chief Justice Melville Fuller (pictured) delivered the majority opinion. The litigants were Republican gubernatorial candidate William S. Taylor and Democratic lieutenant gubernatorial candidate J. C. W. Beckham. In the gubernatorial election, held on November 7, 1899, Taylor received 193,714 votes to Democrat William Goebel's 191,331. This result was certified by a 2–1 decision of the state's Board of Elections. Goebel challenged the election results on the basis of alleged voting irregularities, and the Democratically-controlled Kentucky General Assembly formed a committee to investigate Goebel's claims. Goebel was shot on January 30, 1900, before the General Assembly approved a report. The next day, the Assembly approved a report that invalidated enough votes to swing the election to Goebel. Goebel was sworn into office on January 31, 1900, even as he lay dying of his wounds. Goebel died on February 3, 1900, and Beckham ascended to the governorship. Claiming the General Assembly's decision was invalid, Taylor sued to prevent Beckham from exercising the authority of the governor's office. Beckham sued Taylor for possession of the state capitol and governor's mansion. Both suits were consolidated and heard in Jefferson County circuit court. The circuit court found in favor of Beckham, claiming it had no authority to interfere with the method of deciding contested elections prescribed by the state constitution. The Kentucky Court of Appeals upheld the lower court's decision on appeal. The court further rejected Taylor's claim that he had been deprived of property without due process by stating that an elective office was not property and thus not protected by the Fourteenth Amendment. In a majority opinion delivered by Chief Justice Melville Fuller, the Supreme Court also rejected Taylor's claim to loss of property without due process and thus refused to intervene on Taylor's behalf, claiming that no federal issues were in question and the court lacked jurisdiction.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Federal Judiciary



Supreme Court Building, circa 1935



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






February 5, 1869 – Argument in Texas v. White; the Court held that Texas (pictured) (and the rest of the Confederacy) never left the Union during the Civil War, because a state cannot unilaterally secede from the United States.
February 18, 1988 – Beginning of tenure of Anthony Kennedy as an Associate Justice on the Court
February 22, 1965 – Death of Felix Frankfurter, an Associate Justice on the Court from 1939 to 1962
February 24, 1803 – Decision in Marbury v. Madison, which formed the basis for the exercise of judicial review in the United States under Article III of the Constitution.

More anniversaries...




edit  
Did you know...






... that the Willamette Law Review offices (pictured) are housed in a former Carnegie library re-dedicated in a ceremony featuring U.S. Supreme Court judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg?
... that in Booth v. Churner, over 30 U.S. states asked the Supreme Court to require prisoners to resolve all administrative claims before pursuing litigation?
... that Justice Thomas said the Supreme Court's decision in Penry v. Johnson on the relevance of mental retardation in death penalty sentencing sent "mixed signals" to lower courts?




...Archive/Nominations



More...









edit  
Selected biography



Sonia Maria Sotomayor (born 1954) is an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, serving since August 2009. Sotomayor is the Court's 111th justice, its first Hispanic justice, and its third female justice. Sotomayor was born in The Bronx, New York City and is of Puerto Rican descent. Her father died when she was nine, and she was subsequently raised by her mother. Sotomayor graduated with an A.B., summa cum laude, from Princeton University in 1976 and received her J.D. from Yale Law School in 1979, where she was an editor at the Yale Law Journal. She was an advocate for the hiring of Latino faculty at both schools. She worked as an assistant district attorney in New York for five years before entering private practice in 1984. She played an active role on the boards of directors for the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, the State of New York Mortgage Agency, and the New York City Campaign Finance Board. Sotomayor was nominated to the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by President George H. W. Bush in 1991, and her nomination was confirmed in 1992. In 1995, she issued a preliminary injunction against Major League Baseball which ended the 1994 baseball strike. Sotomayor made a ruling allowing the Wall Street Journal to publish Vince Foster's final note. In 1997, she was nominated by President Bill Clinton to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Her nomination was slowed by the Republican majority in the Senate, but she was eventually confirmed in 1998. On the Second Circuit, Sotomayor heard appeals in more than 3,000 cases and wrote about 380 opinions. Sotomayor has taught at the New York University School of Law and Columbia Law School. In May 2009, President Barack Obama nominated Sotomayor for appointment to the U.S. Supreme Court to replace retired Justice David Souter. Her nomination was confirmed by the United States Senate in August 2009 by a vote of 68–31.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News




August 23: On the campaign trail in the USA, July 2016
June 23: On the campaign trail in the USA, May 2016

Supreme Court of the United States on Wikinews




edit  
Categories






▼ Supreme Court of the United States


► United States Supreme Court cases



► History of the Supreme Court of the United States



► Nominations to the United States Supreme Court



► Supreme Court of the United States people










edit  
Wikiprojects



Parent project


United States History



Main project


U.S. Supreme Court cases


Related projects






Crime
Human rights
Law




United States
United States courts and judges
United States Government





What are WikiProjects?






edit  
Selected quote









“
In the national debate about a serious issue, it is the expression of the minority's viewpoint that most demands the protection of the First Amendment. Whatever the better policy may be, a full and frank discussion of the costs and benefits of the attempt to prohibit the use of marijuana is far wiser than suppression of speech because it is unpopular.
”


— John Paul Stevens, (Deborah Morse et al. v. Joseph Frederick, 2007)







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Topics








v
t
e


Supreme Court of the United States






The Court



Decisions
Procedures
History
Supreme Court Building

Old City Hall, Philadelphia 1791–1800
U.S. Capitol Chamber 1819–1860
U.S. Capitol Chamber 1860–1935















Current members



Chief Justice
John Roberts


Associate Justices
Anthony Kennedy
Clarence Thomas
Ruth Bader Ginsburg
Stephen Breyer
Samuel Alito
Sonia Sotomayor
Elena Kagan


Retired Justices
John Paul Stevens
Sandra Day O'Connor
David Souter








Current nominations



Associate Justice
Neil Gorsuch (nomination)








All members



List of all members

by court
by seat
by time in office
by education
succession
timeline




List of Chief Justices
List of Associate Justices


All nominations
Unsuccessful nominations
Nominations near end of presidency
Court demographics
Justices who served in Congress
Ideological leanings








Court functionaries



Clerk
Reporter of Decisions
Supreme Court Police








Law clerks



Chief Justice
Seat 1
Seat 2
Seat 3
Seat 4
Seat 6
Seat 8
Seat 9
Seat 10
All








Related



United States Solicitor General
United States Reports
Lawyers' Edition
Amicus curiae











Other countries
Law Portal










edit  
Recognized content




Featured articles


 Afroyim v. Rusk
 Ex parte Crow Dog
 Heffernan v. City of Paterson
 Menominee Tribe v. United States
 Regents of the University of California v. Bakke
 Schmerber v. California
 United States v. Kagama
 United States v. Lara
 United States v. Washington
 United States v. Wong Kim Ark
 Washington v. Texas


Featured lists


 List of United States Supreme Court Justices by time in office


Good articles


 Aboriginal title in the Marshall Court
 Adoptive Couple v. Baby Girl
 American Civil Liberties Union
 Bad Elk v. United States
 Bank Markazi v. Peterson
 Berghuis v. Thompkins
 Hugo Black
 Bowman v. Monsanto Co.
 Brentwood Academy v. Tennessee Secondary School Athletic Ass'n
 Brown v. Board of Education
 Brown v. Hotel and Restaurant Employees
 Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n
 Bryan v. Itasca County
 Burton v. United States
 Certificate of division
 Circuit City Stores, Inc. v. Adams
 Coeur Alaska, Inc. v. Southeast Alaska Conservation Council
 Criminal law in the Marshall Court
 Davis v. Ayala
 Demographics of the Supreme Court of the United States
 Elkins v. United States
 Fellows v. Blacksmith
 Glasser v. United States
 Hamdan v. Rumsfeld
 John Marshall Harlan II
 Hazelwood School District v. Kuhlmeier
 Illinois v. McArthur
 J. D. B. v. North Carolina
 Yarborough v. Alvarado
 Jacobson v. United States
 Kawakita v. United States
 Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez
 Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock
 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education & Research v. United States
 Merrion v. Jicarilla Apache Tribe
 Minor v. Happersett
 NLRB v. J. Weingarten, Inc.
 NCAA v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma
 Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Sac & Fox Nation
 County of Oneida v. Oneida Indian Nation of New York State
 Prado Navarette v. California
 Reed v. Town of Gilbert
 Salazar v. Ramah Navajo Chapter
 Santosky v. Kramer
 Seneca Nation of Indians v. Christy
 South Carolina v. Catawba Indian Tribe, Inc.
 Taylor v. Beckham
 Taylor v. Illinois
 United States v. White Mountain Apache Tribe
 United States v. Alvarez
 United States v. Drayton
 United States v. Jackalow
 United States v. Jones (2012)
 United States v. More
 United States v. Ramsey (1926)
 Vance v. Terrazas
 Yasui v. United States







edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Supreme Court of the United States}} to the See also section of Supreme Court of the United States-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Supreme Court of the United States-related articles with {{WP SCOTUS}}
Join WikiProject U.S. Supreme Court cases and list yourself as a Participant in the project.
Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles
Deletion discussions: listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Law
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed Supreme Court of the United States articles in the WikiProject U.S. Supreme Court cases.
Stubs: Supreme Court of the United States stubs








edit  
Related portals













Criminal justice
Government of the United States
Human rights
Law
Society
Sociology
United States






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Supreme Court of the United States on  Wikinews 
Supreme Court of the United States on  Wikiquote 
Supreme Court of the United States on  Wikibooks 
Supreme Court of the United States on  Wikisource 
Supreme Court of the United States on  Wiktionary 
Supreme Court of the United States on  Wikiversity 
Supreme Court of the United States on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media






























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States&oldid=649230609"					
Categories: United States portalsSupreme Court of the United States portalHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 28 February 2015, at 14:18.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.260","walltime":"0.452","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2605,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":166631,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":37190,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  322.554      1 -total"," 32.40%  104.522      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 20.76%   66.951      1 Portal:Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States/Recognized_content"," 18.75%   60.490      3 Template:Columns-list"," 16.01%   51.654     69 Template:Icon","  6.76%   21.789      1 Template:Featured_portal","  6.55%   21.117      1 Portal:Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States/Intro","  6.49%   20.941      1 Portal:Supreme_Court_of_the_United_States/Wikiprojects","  5.97%   19.248      1 Template:Top_icon","  5.71%   18.427      1 Template:Shortcut"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.084","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2519005,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1256","timestamp":"20170206172809","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":547,"wgHostname":"mw1256"});});
