 







Portal:Terrorism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology






 War and the military
Military of  Ancient Rome
 Australia
Bangladesh
Canada
Germany
 Greece
Pakistan
Turkey
United Kingdom (British Army
Royal Air Force
Royal Navy)
 United States (Army
Marine Corps
Navy
Air Force
Coast Guard) … Military history of  Africa
France
the Ottoman Empire ……  American Civil War
American Revolutionary War
Cold War
Crusades
 Italian Wars
 Napoleonic Wars
War of 1812
 World War I
 World War II …… Battleships
 Biological warfare
Submarine
Tank
Weapons of mass destruction …… NATO
 Terrorism





edit  
Terrorism portal



September 11 attacks


Terrorism is the main systematic use of terror especially as a means of coercion. At present, there is no internationally agreed definition of terrorism. Common definitions of terrorism refer only to those violent acts which are intended to create fear (terror), are perpetrated for an ideological goal (as opposed to a "lone wolf" attack), and deliberately target or disregard the safety of non-combatants. Some definitions also include acts of unlawful violence and war. The history of terrorist organizations suggests that they do not select terrorism for its political effectiveness. Individual terrorists tend to be motivated more by a desire for social solidarity with other members of their organization than by political platforms or strategic objectives, which are often murky and undefined. The word "terrorism" is politically and emotionally charged, and this greatly compounds the difficulty of providing a precise definition. Studies have found over 100 definitions of “terrorism”. The concept of terrorism is itself controversial because it is often used by states to delegitimize political or foreign opponents, and potentially legitimize the state's own use of terror against them. A less politically and emotionally charged, and better defined, term (used not only for terrorists, and not including all those who have been described as terrorists) is violent non-state actor. Terrorism has been practiced by a broad array of political organizations for furthering their objectives. It has been practiced by both right-wing and left-wing political parties, nationalistic groups, religious groups, revolutionaries, and ruling governments. One form is the use of violence against noncombatants for the purpose of gaining publicity for a group, cause, or individual.


More about Terrorism...






Show new selections


edit  
Selected article



American Airlines Flight 11 was a scheduled U.S. domestic passenger flight from Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts, to Los Angeles International Airport. It was hijacked by five Islamic terrorists and deliberately crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center in New York City as part of the September 11, 2001, attacks. Fifteen minutes into the flight, the hijackers injured at least three people, forcefully breached the cockpit, and overpowered the pilot and first officer. Mohamed Atta, who was a known member of al-Qaeda, and trained as a pilot, took over the controls. Air traffic controllers noticed the flight was in distress when the crew stopped responding to them. They realized the flight had been hijacked when Atta mistakenly transmitted announcements for passengers to air traffic control. On board, two flight attendants contacted American Airlines, and provided information about the hijackers and injuries to passengers and crew. The aircraft crashed into the North Tower of the World Trade Center at 08:46 local time; the impact killed all 92 people aboard, including the hijackers. Many people in the streets witnessed the collision, and the Naudet brothers captured the impact on video, as did Pavel Hlava, and Wolfgang Staehle had a webcam set up that captured the impact through a series of photographs. Before the hijacking was confirmed, news agencies began to report on the incident and speculated that the crash had been an accident. The impact and subsequent fire caused the North Tower to collapse, which resulted in thousands of additional casualties. During the recovery effort at the World Trade Center site, workers recovered and identified dozens of remains from Flight 11 victims, but many other body fragments could not be identified.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: United States Department of State



Colin Powell's UN presentation slide showing alleged "UK poison cell" as part of global network.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that the works of poet Frank Messina (pictured) include responses to the September 11, 2001 attacks, and poems about the New York Mets?
... that after the September 11 attacks, Korean Air Lines Flight 85 accidentally sent out a hijack signal?
... that Frank Tepedino, former Major League Baseball player, lost 343 colleagues from the New York City Fire Department during the September 11 attacks?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
In this month






5 February 2006 - USA Today reports that NSA electronic surveillance program secured the cooperation of the main telecommunications companies in charge of international phone-calls, in efforts to eavesdrop without warrants on international calls
14 February 2007 - Foreign ministers of China, India, and Russia meeting in Hyderabad House, Delhi, India to discuss terrorism at the 2007 Delhi security summit
20 February 2003 - Combating Terrorism Center included in curriculum at United States Military Academy
26 February 1993 - 1993 World Trade Center bombing (pictured), leaving six dead and 1,042 injured

More anniversaries...






edit  
Selected biography



Abu Nidal (Arabic: أبو نضال‎‎) (May 1937 – August 16, 2002), born Sabri Khalil al-Banna (Arabic: صبري خليل البنا), was the founder of Fatah–The Revolutionary Council (Arabic: فتح المجلس الثوري), a militant Palestinian group more commonly known as the Abu Nidal Organization (ANO). At the height of his power in the 1970s and 1980s, Abu Nidal, or "father of the struggle", was widely regarded as the most dangerous and ruthless of the Palestinian political leaders. He told Der Spiegel in 1985: "I am the evil spirit which moves around only at night causing ... nightmares." Part of the secular, left-wing, Palestinian rejectionist front, so called because they reject proposals for a peaceful settlement with Israel, the ANO was formed after a split in 1974 between Abu Nidal and Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction within the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). Setting himself up as a freelance contractor, Abu Nidal is believed to have ordered attacks in 20 countries, killing or injuring over 900 people. The group's most notorious attacks were on the El Al ticket counters at Rome and Vienna airports in December 1985, when Arab gunmen high on amphetamines opened fire on passengers in simultaneous shootings, killing 18 and wounding 120. Patrick Seale, Abu Nidal's biographer, wrote of the attacks that their "random cruelty marked them as typical Abu Nidal operations". Abu Nidal died of between one and four gunshot wounds in Baghdad in August 2002. Palestinian sources believe he was killed on the orders of Saddam Hussein, but the Iraqi government insisted he had committed suicide. The Guardian wrote on the news of his death: "He was the patriot turned psychopath. He served only himself, only the warped personal drives that pushed him into hideous crime. He was the ultimate mercenary."



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Terrorism


► Terrorism by form



► Terrorism by location



► Terrorism by method



► Terrorism by perpetrator



► Terrorism by year



► Terrorist incidents



► Counter-terrorism



► Terrorism databases



► Dirty wars



► Funding of terrorism



► Terrorism laws



► Terrorism-related lists



► Organizations designated as terrorist



► People involved with terrorism



► Terrorism tactics



► War on Terror



► Works about terrorism



► Terrorism stubs










edit  
Wikiprojects



Parent project


Sociology



Main project


Terrorism


Related projects


Crime
Military history
Politics


What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected quote







"Terrorism is the war of the poor, and, war is the terrorism of the rich."
— Peter Ustinov







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Topics





Terrorism






Main articles



Definitions
History of terrorism
International conventions
Anti-terrorism legislation
Counter-terrorism
War on Terror











By ideology



Communist
Environmental terrorism
Ethnic violence
Narcoterrorism
Nationalist
Religious (Christian
Islamic Wahabism
Jewish)








Types and tactics



Agro-terrorism
Aircraft hijacking
Bioterrorism
Car bombing
Environmental
Nuclear
Piracy
Propaganda of the deed
Proxy bomb
Suicide attack








State involvement







State terrorism
State-sponsored terrorism








By country



Iran
Pakistan
Russia
Sri Lanka
United States











Organisation



Clandestine cell system
Financing
Front
Lone-wolf fighter
Training camp








Historical



Red Terror
Reign of Terror
White Terror








Lists



Charities accused of ties to terrorism
Designated terrorist organizations
Incidents
Islamic terrorist attacks








Memorials and museums



House of Terror
Topography of Terror
Victims of Acts of Terror Memorial










edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Abu Nidal
 Air Rhodesia Flight 825
 Iraq War in Anbar Province
 American Airlines Flight 11
 American Airlines Flight 77
 The Boys from Baghdad High
 Robert Catesby
 Operation Flavius
 Iranian Embassy siege
 Khalid al-Mihdhar
 Oklahoma City bombing
 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack
 Assata Shakur
 Wail al-Shehri
 United Airlines Flight 93


Good articles


 Idi Amin
 Asama-Sansō incident
 Bank Markazi v. Peterson
 Bath School disaster
 Boricua Popular Army
 George W. Bush
 The CIA and September 11
 Death of Osama bin Laden
 Hezbollah
 The Interview
 2008 Jerusalem bulldozer attack
 Ted Kaczynski
 Kony 2012
 Lufthansa Flight 615
 Monbar Hotel attack
 2008 Mumbai attacks
 Michael P. Murphy
 National Airlines Flight 2511
 Death of Linda Norgrove
 Northwest Airlines Flight 253
 2009 Palma Nova bombing
 Izz ad-Din al-Qassam
 R v Thomas
 Real Irish Republican Army
 September 11 attacks
 Targeted Killing in International Law
 Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World
 Malala Yousafzai







edit  
Things you can do







Add {{Portal|Terrorism}} to the See also section of Terrorism-related articles.
Tag the talk pages of Terrorism-related articles with {{WikiProject Terrorism}}
Join WikiProject Terrorism and list yourself as a Participant in the project.
Add all new articles within the scope of the project to the list at Wikipedia:WikiProject Terrorism/Articles
Check the recent changes page for improvements, other changes, and vandalism to these articles
Attention: A list of articles needing immediate attention is available.
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available, updated by WolterBot. More information...
Deletion discussions: listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Deletion sorting/Terrorism
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability
Rate the Unassessed Terrorism articles in the Terrorism WikiProject.
Stubs: Terrorism stubs








edit  
Related portals













Criminal justice
Law
Politics
Psychology
Sociology
Weapons of mass destruction
War






edit  
Associated Wikimedia




Terrorism on  Wikinews 
Terrorism on  Wikiquote 
Terrorism on  Wikibooks 
Terrorism on  Wikisource 
Terrorism on  Wiktionary 
Terrorism on  Wikiversity 
Terrorism on Wikimedia Commons


News
Quotations
Manuals & Texts
Texts
Definitions
Learning resources
Images & Media






























What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Terrorism&oldid=694131844"					
Categories: Terrorism portalPolitics portalsMilitary and war-related portalsTerrorismHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikisource 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাEspañol日本語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 7 December 2015, at 08:21.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.324","walltime":"0.505","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2659,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":142635,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":26568,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":16,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":2,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  328.019      1 -total"," 41.69%  136.757      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 15.89%   52.134      1 Portal:Terrorism/Featured_content"," 14.67%   48.109      2 Template:Columns-list"," 12.59%   41.288      1 Portal:Terrorism/Selected_biography/Layout"," 12.27%   40.246     43 Template:Icon"," 11.35%   37.218      1 Template:Military_portals_browsebar"," 10.40%   34.100      1 Template:Hlist","  7.25%   23.780      1 Portal:Terrorism/Selected_article/Layout","  7.22%   23.692      1 Template:Lang-ar"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.094","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2623188,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1267","timestamp":"20170211204618","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":55,"wgHostname":"mw1236"});});
