 







Portal:Animation

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search









Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




edit  
The Animation Portal



Shortcuts:

P:ANIMATION
P:TOON




Traditional animation

Animation is the rapid display of a sequence of images (or frames as they are called) to create an illusion of movement. The most common method of presenting animation is as a motion picture or video program, although there are other methods. This type of presentation is usually accomplished with a camera and a projector or a computer viewing screen which can rapidly cycle through images in a sequence. Animation can be made with either hand rendered art, computer-generated imagery, or three-dimensional objects, e.g. puppets or clay figures, or a combination of techniques. The position of each object in any particular image relates to the position of that object in the previous and following images so that the objects each appear to fluidly move independently of one another. The viewing device displays these images in rapid succession, usually 24, 25, or 30 frames per second.


More about animation...





Show new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



"Trapped in the Closet" is the twelfth episode of the ninth season of the Comedy Central series South Park. It originally aired on November 16, 2005. The plot of the episode centers on the South Park character Stan Marsh, as he joins Scientology in an attempt to find something "fun and free". After the discovery of his surprisingly high "thetan levels", he is recognized as the reincarnation of the founder of the church, L. Ron Hubbard. Isaac Hayes, the voice of Chef, quit the show shortly before the start of the tenth season. The reason for his departure, as reported by Matt Stone, was due to his faith in Scientology and this episode, which—despite initially supporting the show's satirical take on several talk shows—he claimed was very offensive. "Trapped in the Closet" was nominated for an Emmy Award in July 2006, in the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) category in July 2006, but lost to The Simpsons episode "The Seemingly Never-Ending Story". The episode was featured among Comedy Central's list of "10 South Parks That Changed The World", spoofed by Conan O'Brien in the opening segment of the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards, and mentioned in the Scientology critique film, The Bridge.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: John Leech



The word cartoon has various meanings, based on several very different forms of visual art and illustration. The term has evolved over time. The original meaning was in fine art of the late Middle Ages and Renaissance, where it referred to a preparatory drawing for a piece of art, such as a painting or tapestry.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories







▼ Animation


► Animation by continent



► Animation by country



► Animation by genre



► Animation by medium



► Animation by studio



► Animation-related lists



► Animation fandom



► Animatronics



► Anime-influenced animation



► Animation books



► Animated characters



► Animation collections



► Computer animation



► Dance animation



► Animation education



► Animation events



► History of animation



► Images of animation



► Animation industry



► Live-action animated film



► Animation organizations



► Animation people



► Pornographic animation



► Animation techniques



► Animation technology



► Animation terminology



► Works about animation



► Works with live action and animation



► Animation stubs



► Wikipedia categories named after animations












edit  
WikiProjects



Parent projects
Arts • Film • Entertainment • Visual arts


Main project





Animation


Sub-projects
American animation • Avatar: The Last Airbender • Disney • Futurama • G.I. Joe • My Little Pony • Nickelodeon • South Park • The Simpsons • Transformers


Related Projects
Anime and manga • Biography • Comics • Fictional characters • Media franchises • Music • Television • Video games


What are WikiProjects?







edit  
Selected biography



Jeff "Swampy" Marsh (born December 9, 1960) is an American television director, writer, producer, storyboard artist, and actor associated with several animated television series. Marsh was born in Santa Monica, California, where he grew up with a heavily blended family dynamic. Marsh has been and continues to be a driving force behind several animation projects, working for over six seasons on the animated television series The Simpsons. Marsh continued to work on other animated television series, including King of the Hill and Rocko's Modern Life, before moving to England in 1996. While in England, Marsh worked on several animated programs, including Postman Pat and Bounty Hamster, and worked for BKN New Media Ltd. to produce several feature films. After six years living in England, Marsh was asked by his longtime partner Dan Povenmire to help produce Phineas and Ferb in 2007, a concept the two had while working together on Rocko's Modern Life. Marsh accepted and moved back to the United States; the series has since garnered Marsh two Emmy Awards nominations for songwriting.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected list



The accolades received by Frozen, a 2013 computer-animated film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It was directed by Chris Buck and Jennifer Lee, the latter of whom also wrote the screenplay, and produced by Peter Del Vecho. (pictured) The film focuses on Anna, a princess, who sets off on a journey to find her estranged sister, Elsa, whose magical powers to control ice and snow have trapped their kingdom in eternal winter. Frozen premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood, California on November 19, 2013, before going on wide release on November 27, in over 3,700 theatres in the United States and Canada. It debuted in second place with over $67 million. The film has grossed a worldwide total of over $1.26 billion on a production budget of $150 million. Frozen has garnered a variety of awards and nominations, many of them in the Best Original Song (for "Let It Go") and Best Animated Feature categories. At the 71st Golden Globe Awards, the film earned two nominations, winning for Best Animated Feature.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that comedy writer Al Jean (pictured), who has been awarded with four Emmy Awards for his work on The Simpsons, graduated from Harvard University with a bachelor's degree in mathematics?
...that The Old Lady and the Pigeons lost the Oscar but won the Genie?
...that to watch an early screening of "The Gathering", attendees of the Star Wars Celebration VI had to bring their kids with them?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Anniversaries for February 5



Films released


1928 – The Oily Bird (United States)
1934 – Southern Exposure (United States)
1938 – Porky at the Crocadero (United States)
1946 – The ABC of Hand Tools (United States)
1953 – Walt Disney's feature film Peter Pan, premieres.
1966 – Mucho Locos (United States)
1993 – Recycle Rex (United States)
2005 – Air (Japan)


Television series and specials


1966 – Osomatsu-kun, a Japanese anime series begins airing on MBS
1983 – Aura Battler Dunbine, a Japanese anime series begins airing on Nagoya TV
1994 – Brave Police J-Decker, a Japanese anime series begins airing on Nagoya TV
1999 – Cho Hatsumei Boy Kanipan, a Japanese anime series begins airing on TV Tokyo


Deaths


2004 – John Hench, American animator (b. 1908)


More February anniversaries / All Anniversaries...





edit  
Selected quote







Any story can be told in animation. I’m hoping someone will try to tell a story that’s brand new, not one that’s similar to every other story we've seen.
— Tom Ruegger







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Topics


Animation (Book)

Industry: Animator (List of animators) · Animation director · Animation studios · Animation film festivals (international / regional)
Works: Feature-length films · Short films · Television series · Films based on animated cartoons · Computer-animated films · Stop-motion films
Techniques: Traditional animation · Limited animation · Rotoscoping · Stop Motion · Clay (strata-cut) · Cutout (silhouette) · Graphic · Model (go motion) · Object · Pixilation · Puppetoon · Computer animation · Flash animation · PowerPoint animation · SVG animation · Cel-shaded animation · Crowd simulation · Morph target animation · Motion capture · Non-photorealistic rendering · Skeletal animation
Other methods: Drawn-on-film · Flip book · Inbetweening · Paint-on-glass · Pinscreen · Pixel art · Sand animation
Topics: Cartoon series · Cartoon physics · Animated cartoon · Character animation · Independent animation · Adult animation · List of animated shorts available on DVD
History: Azerbaijan · Canada · China · France · Iran · Japan · Russia · United Kingdom · United States
By country: China · Japan · Korea · United States · India · Malaysia · Philippines · Vietnam




edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Animaniacs
 Atlantis: The Lost Empire
 Joseph Barbera
 Blue's Clues
 Cape Feare
 Cartman Gets an Anal Probe
 Nancy Cartwright
 The City of New York vs. Homer Simpson
 Damien (South Park)
 Diary of a Camper
 Walt Disney
 Dream of the Rarebit Fiend
 Ed, Edd n Eddy
 Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within
 Gertie the Dinosaur
 William Hanna
 Hell Is Other Robots
 Homer's Enemy
 Homer's Phobia
 Hoodwinked!
 How a Mosquito Operates
 Interactions (The Spectacular Spider-Man)
 The Joy of Sect
 Kampung Boy (TV series)
 The Last Temptation of Krust
 Lisa the Skeptic
 Lisa the Vegetarian
 Little Nemo (1911 film)
 The Lord of the Rings (1978 film)
 Troy McClure
 Mr. Hankey, the Christmas Poo
 North by North Quahog
 The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest
 Road to the Multiverse
 A Rugrats Chanukah
 Sesame Street
 Sideshow Bob
 Bart Simpson
 Homer Simpson
 The Simpsons Game
 The Simpsons: Hit & Run
 The Simpsons Movie
 The Simpsons
 The Sinking of the Lusitania
 South Park (season 13)
 Stark Raving Dad
 Starvin' Marvin (South Park)
 A Streetcar Named Marge
 Transformers (film)
 Trapped in the Closet (South Park)
 Treehouse of Horror
 Volcano (South Park)
 Weight Gain 4000
 You Only Move Twice


Featured lists


 List of accolades received by Up
 Annie Award for Best Animated Home Entertainment Production
 Annie Award for Best Animated Video Game
 List of Avatar: The Last Airbender episodes
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 1)
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 2)
 Avatar: The Last Airbender (season 3)
 List of Family Guy cast members
 Family Guy (season 1)
 Family Guy (season 5)
 Family Guy (season 8)
 List of accolades received by Frozen (2013 film)
 List of Adventure Time episodes
 List of awards and nominations received by The Simpsons
 List of Ed, Edd n Eddy episodes
 List of The Simpsons guest stars
 List of The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror episodes
 List of Academy Awards for Walt Disney
 List of Family Guy episodes
 List of SpongeBob SquarePants episodes
 List of The Bellflower Bunnies episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes
 List of The Simpsons episodes (seasons 1–20)
 List of accolades received by Ratatouille
 List of Regular Show episodes
 List of The Simpsons cast members
 The Simpsons shorts
 The Simpsons (season 1)
 The Simpsons (season 2)
 The Simpsons (season 3)
 The Simpsons (season 4)
 The Simpsons (season 5)
 The Simpsons (season 6)
 The Simpsons (season 7)
 The Simpsons (season 8)
 The Simpsons (season 9)
 The Simpsons (season 10)
 The Simpsons (season 13)
 The Simpsons (season 14)
 List of SpongeBob SquarePants guest stars
 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance
 List of accolades received by WALL-E


Featured topics


 Seasons of Avatar: The Last Airbender


Featured portals


 Portal:Animation
 Portal:The Simpsons


Featured pictures


 File:Ernest-Borgnine 2004.JPEG
 File:Geneva mechanism 6spoke animation.gif
 File:Glasses 800 edit.png
 File:Muybridge race horse animated.gif
 File:Phenakistoscope 3g07690b.gif
 File:Winsor McCay (1912) How a Mosquito Operates.webm






edit  
Things you can do




Requested articles: Experimental animation, Andrew Kepple, Cyboars, Chasen Kay, Vince Collins, Corin Hardy, Louie (animated show), Simsalagrimm, Brainphreak, The King's Beard, Timothy Tweedle the First Christmas Elf, Studio CGI, Kondoh Akino, More at visual arts and film, radio and television...
Images and photos needed: Request images that are needed from Wikipedia requested photographs of animation to included in each articles.
Stubs: Work on stubs in articles in Animation stubs, Animated television series stubs, Animated film stubs, Animated character stubs and Animator stubs.
Expand: Flip book, Model sheet, Animation camera, Animation stand
Cleanup: A cleanup listing for this project is available. See also the list by category, the tool's wiki page and the index of WikiProjects.
Infobox: Add infobox that are needed from Category:Animation articles needing infoboxes in articles.
Tag the talk pages of Animation-related articles with the {{WikiProject Animation}} banner.
Rate the Unassessed Animation articles and Unknown-importance Animation articles.
Deletion sorting: Please see the collection of discussions on the deletion of articles related to animation - compiled by WikiProject Deletion sorting
Help out with articles placed in Category:Animation articles needing attention
Notability: Articles with notability concerns, listed at WikiProject Notability





edit  
Subportals




Cartoon Network

Computer-generated imagery

Disney

Ed, Edd n Eddy

Family Guy

Futurama

Nickelodeon

Muppets

The Simpsons

South Park

SpongeBob SquarePants





edit  
Related portals




Anime and Manga

Arts

Books

Cartoon

Comics

Computer graphics

Fictional characters

Film

Furry

Horror fiction

Literature

Music

Photography

Poetry

Radio

Speculative fiction

Superhero fiction

Television

Video games

Visual arts





edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Animation on Wikinews
News

Animation on Wikiquote
Quotes

Animation on Commons
Images

Animation on Wikisource
Texts

Animation on Wikibooks
Books







What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals










 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Animation&oldid=681103449"					
Categories: AnimationAnimation portalAnimation portalsArts portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةDeutschFrançais한국어Italiano日本語PortuguêsРусскийTiếng Việt 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 15 September 2015, at 05:56.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.372","walltime":"0.555","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3718,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":187406,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":54025,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":8,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  341.674      1 -total"," 31.37%  107.197      6 Template:Random_portal_component"," 29.78%  101.761      1 Portal:Animation/Featured_content"," 28.25%   96.512      5 Template:Columns-list"," 24.99%   85.392    105 Template:Icon"," 10.71%   36.589      1 Template:Featured_portal","  9.90%   33.811      1 Template:Top_icon","  8.31%   28.383      1 Template:Category_handler","  6.38%   21.813      1 Portal:Animation/Intro","  4.99%   17.052      2 Template:Related_portals"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.106","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2766118,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1186","timestamp":"20170205194813","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":55,"wgHostname":"mw1244"});});
