 







Portal:Internet

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search



Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




Sociology portals: Arts · Anthropology · Community · Culture · Economics · Education · Geography · Gender studies · Globalization · History · Human rights · Internet · Law · Philosophy · Social movements · Social sciences · Social welfare and social work · Society






edit  
The Internet Portal



The Internet is a global system of interconnected computer networks, consisting of millions of private and public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope that are linked by copper wires, fiber-optic cables, wireless connections, and other technologies. The Internet appears to its users as a single worldwide network accessible to the general public. The protocol that makes it possible to use the millions of networks composing the Internet as if they were one network is a special type of packet switching known as IP or The Internet Protocol.
A computer that connects to the Internet can access information from a vast number of servers and other computers. An Internet connection also allows the computer to send information through the network; that information may be saved and ultimately accessed by a variety of servers and other computers. Much of the information widely accessible through use of the Internet consists of the interlinked hypertext documents and other resources of the World Wide Web (WWW). Web users typically send and receive information using a web browser. Other software for interacting with computer networks includes specialized programs for electronic mail, online chat, file transfer and file sharing.
Information is moved around the Internet by packet switching using the standardized Internet Protocol Suite (TCP/IP)which defines how packets are moving in any platform especially the transport layer. The Internet Protocol Suite consists of several layers of protocols. The lowest layer (the link layer) deals with protocols that transmit data over specific technologies, such as Ethernet or Wi-Fi. The highest layer (the application layer) supports specific applications, such as e-mail and file transfer. In between are the Internet layer, which provides for transmitting packets over any conceivable technology, and the transport layer, which provides for various services such as reliable delivery of packets or real-time streaming of packets.

Read more about the Internet…






View new selections below (purge)


edit  
Selected article



The AACS encryption key controversy, also known as the AACS cryptographic key controversy, arose in April 2007 when the Motion Picture Association of America and the Advanced Access Content System Licensing Administrator, LLC (AACS LA) began issuing demand letters to websites publishing a 128-bit number, represented in hexadecimal as 09 F9 11 02 9D 74 E3 5B D8 41 56 C5 63 56 88 C0 (commonly referred to as 09 F9), which is one of the cryptographic keys for HD DVDs and Blu-ray Discs. The letters demanded the immediate removal of the key and any links to it, citing the anti-circumvention provisions of the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). In response to widespread internet postings of the key, the AACS LA issued various press statements, praising those websites that complied with their requests as acting in a "responsible manner", warning that "legal and technical tools" were adapting to the situation. The controversy was further escalated in early May 2007, when aggregate news site Digg received a DMCA cease and desist notice and then removed numerous articles on the matter and banned users reposting the information. This sparked what some describe as a digital revolt, or "cyber-riot", in which users posted and spread the key throughout the internet en masse. The AACS LA described this situation as an "interesting new twist".



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Selected picture








Credit: Original: Jerry7171 Modified image: AmosWolfe



Lolcats are images combining photographs of animals, most frequently cats, with a subjectively humorous and idiosyncratic caption in broken English referred to as Kitty Pidgin, Kitteh, or lolspeak. The meme originated in the rule 1 and 2 imageboards as the Caturday internet phenomenon. The name "lolcat" is a compound word of "lol" and "cat". The phenomenon is also referred to as cat macros. Lolcats are created for photo sharing imageboards and other internet forums.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
News

Wikinews Internet portal


December 17: Australian Federal Court orders ISPs to block copyright infringing sites
December 10: Telegram introduces bidirectional IFTTT integration
November 25: Telegram introduces blogging and instant view features
October 24: Distributed malware attacks Dyn DNS, takes down websites in US
October 28: Time magazine names Ahmed Mohamed to 'Most Influential Teens of 2015'
October 12: Wikinews interviews painter Pricasso on his art and freedom of expression
September 22: Texas student Ahmed Mohamed inspires social movement

More...






edit  
WikiProjects


Main project: WikiProject Internet

Related WikiProjects: Blogging • Websites • Early Web History • Internet culture
What are WikiProjects?








edit  
Selected biography



Vannevar Bush (March 11, 1890 – June 30, 1974) was an American engineer and science administrator, known for his work on analog computing, his political role in the development of the atomic bomb, and the idea of the memex—seen as a pioneering concept for the World Wide Web. A leading figure in the development of the military–industrial complex and the military funding of science in the United States, Bush was a prominent policymaker and public intellectual ("the patron saint of American science") during World War II and the ensuing Cold War. Through his public career, Bush was a proponent of democratic technocracy and of the centrality of technological innovation and entrepreneurship for both economic and geopolitical security.



...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Did you know...






...that Internet entrepreneur Pete Ashdown (pictured) ran against incumbent Orrin Hatch in the 2006 U.S. Senate race in Utah?
...that the Working Group on Internet Governance is a United Nations body set up to investigate the future governance of the Internet and the role of ICANN?
...that the Indian Railways Fan Club is the Internet's largest website devoted to the Indian Railways and rail transport in the Indian subcontinent?




...Archive/Nominations



More...







edit  
Categories






▼ Internet


► Internet by continent



► Internet by country



► Internet-related lists



► Internet access



► Internet architecture



► Cyberattacks



► Internet broadcasting



► Internet culture



► Internet databases



► Internet events



► Internet governance



► History of the Internet



► Internet hosting



► Internet people



► Internet law



► Internet-related organizations



► Internet security



► Internet Standards



► Internet terminology



► Works about the Internet



► Internet stubs














edit  
Selected quote







I used to think the Net would change the world, but the world has changed the Net.
— Ken MacLeod, 2000







...Archive/Nominations


More...






edit  
Featured content



Featured articles


 Acid2
 From The Doctor to my son Thomas
 The Million Dollar Homepage


Good articles


 Arena (web browser)
 Beyond the First Amendment
 Bomis
 .bv
 Cow Clicker
 Cyber Rights
 The Daily Stormer
 Everything That Happens Will Happen Today
 Fucking Machines
 Heartbleed
 Hightail
 ILoo
 Microsoft vs. MikeRoweSoft
 Minneapolis wireless internet network
 Munchausen by Internet
 .no
 Kaycee Nicole
 Norid
 On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog
 PHP
 .sj
 The Signpost
 Twitter
 Uniform Resource Identifier
 World Enough and Time
 YouTube


Good topics


 Norid


Featured pictures







File:Internet map 1024.jpg











edit  
Things you can do




Place the {{WikiProject Internet}} project banner on the talk pages of all articles within the scope of the project.
Cleanup: Blog, Moblog, Podcasting
Rate the Unassessed Internet articles in the Internet WikiProject.
Requested articles: Illinois Bio-Grid, More...
Stubs: Domain names, Internet broadcasting, Internet publication, Websites, World Wide Web, Computer networks, More...







edit  
Main topics



Internet


Articles
Application layer
ARPANET
Blog
Browsers
CERN
Collaborative software
Computer file
Computer network
Computer networking
DARPA
Data (computing)
Electronic commerce
E-mail
English on the Internet
FidoNet
File sharing
History of the Internet
HTML
HyperCard
Hyperlink
ICANN
Instant messaging
Internet access
Internet capitalization conventions
Internet censorship
Internet Control Message Protocol
Internet democracy
Internet Exchange Point
Internet Governance Forum
Internet privacy
Internet Protocol
Internet protocols
Internet research
Internetworking
Massively multiplayer online role-playing game
Mosaic (web browser)
National Center for Supercomputing Applications
Net neutrality
Online chat
Peering
Remote access
Transmission Control Protocol
Scale-free network
Search engine
Security
Social network service
Unicode
Uniform resource locator
User agent
User Datagram Protocol
ViolaWWW
Virtual private network
VoIP
Web browser
Web resource
Web service
Wide area network
World Summit on the Information Society
World Wide Web


Lists
List of basic Internet topics
List of Internet topics
Academic databases and search engines
List of blogging terms
List of HTTP headers
List of HTTP status codes
List of IP protocol numbers
List of journals available free online
List of IPv6 tunnel brokers
List of PHP editors
List of organizations with .INT domain names
List of social networking websites
List of newsgroups
Comp.* hierarchy
Sci.* hierarchy
List of RFCs
List of search engines
List of virtual communities
List of web directories
List of webcomics
List of websites founded before 1995








edit  
Related portals





Amiga



Apple Inc.



Computer science



Free software



Information technology



Java



Microsoft



Computer security



Python programming



Software



Technology



Telecommunication



Mass surveillance



Google








edit  
Associated Wikimedia





Internet on Wikiquote
Quotes

Internet on Commons
Images

Internet on Wikisource
Texts

Internet on Wikibooks
Books

Internet on Wikinews
News








edit  
Wikipedia's portals



All Portals Overview Glossaries Indices Lists Outlines Categories


Reference Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology



Featured portals
About portals















 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Internet&oldid=756077472"					
Categories: Internet portalInternetComputing portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikinews 



Languages


EspañolفارسیFrançaisՀայերենItalianoעבריתქართულიҚазақшаМакедонскиമലയാളംNorsk bokmålPolskiРусскийТатарча/tatarçaTürkçe中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 21 December 2016, at 21:31.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.288","walltime":"0.436","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3465,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":139604,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":34918,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":17,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  300.265      1 -total"," 22.06%   66.250      5 Template:Random_portal_component"," 18.66%   56.033      1 Portal:Internet/Features"," 17.81%   53.466      1 Portal:Internet/Related_portals"," 17.34%   52.065      1 Template:Related_portals2"," 16.30%   48.944      1 Portal:Internet/Wikipedia's_portals"," 15.86%   47.614      1 Template:Portal_navbar_no_header2"," 14.89%   44.713      2 Template:Small"," 14.30%   42.929     14 Template:Related_portal_item"," 14.20%   42.633      2 Template:Center"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.094","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3537313,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1252","timestamp":"20170206131439","ttl":21600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":64,"wgHostname":"mw1249"});});
