 







Portal:London Transport

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

THE LONDON TRANSPORT PORTAL


Topics
Culture
Geography
Health
History
Mathematics
Nature
People
Philosophy
Religion
Society
Technology




 London •  Trains •  UK Railways •  Buses •  Transport






London Transport




Shortcuts:

P:LT
P:LUL
P:TUBE



The London Transport system is one of the oldest and largest public transport systems in the world. Many components of its transport system, such as the double-decker bus, the Hackney Carriage black taxi and the London Underground, are internationally recognised symbols of London.
Most transport services in London are controlled by Transport for London (TfL), an executive agency of the Greater London Authority. TfL-controlled services include the London Underground, Docklands Light Railway, the London Overground, Buses and Trams, most of which accept payment by the Oyster card. TfL also administers the congestion charge zone and the low emission zone.
London has a comprehensive rail network with several major railway stations linking to the rest of the country. International travel is possible from two international railway stations at St Pancras International and Stratford International, which connect to mainland Europe through the Eurostar service, or from one of six international airports, including Heathrow or Gatwick.
London is the starting point for a number of motorway routes. The M25 is an orbital motorway which enables vehicles to avoid travelling through central London and is one of the busiest motorways in Europe.

More about Transport in London...














Buses
Taxis
Underground
Overground
DLR
Tramlink
National Rail
River Services
Heathrow Airport


Show new selections below











Selected article







Bow Back Rivers or Stratford Back Rivers is a complex of waterways between Bow and Stratford in east London, England, which connect the River Lea to the River Thames. Starting in the twelfth century, works were carried out to drain Stratford Marshes and several of the waterways were constructed to power watermills. Bow Creek provided the final outfall to the Thames, and the other channels were called Abbey Creek, Channelsea River, City Mill River, Prescott Channel, Pudding Mill River, Three Mills Back River, Three Mills Wall River and Waterworks River.
The rivers have been subject to change over centuries, with Alfred the Great diverting the river in 896 to create a second channel, and Queen Matilda bridging both channels around 1110. Because the river system was tidal as far as Hackney Wick, several of the mills were tide mills, including those at Abbey Mills and those at Three Mills, one of which survives. Construction of the New River in the seventeenth century to supply drinking water to London, with subsequent extraction by waterworks companies, led to a lowering of water levels, and the river was gradually canalised to maintain navigation. Significant changes occurred with the creation of the Lee Navigation in 1767, which resulted in the construction of the Hackney Cut and the Limehouse Cut, allowing barges to bypass most of the back rivers. A major reconstruction of the rivers took place in the 1930s, authorised by the River Lee (Flood Relief) Act, but by the 1960s, commercial usage of the waterways had largely ceased. Deteriorating infrastructure led to the rivers dwindling to little more than tidal creeks and they were categorised in 1968 as having no economic or long term future.
However, British Waterways decided that their full restoration was an important aim in 2002, and the construction of the main stadium for the 2012 Summer Olympics on an island formed by the rivers has provided funding to construct a new lock and sluices which have stabilised water levels throughout the Olympic site. It was hoped that significant amounts of materials for the construction of the Olympic facilities would be delivered by barge, but this did not happen. Improvements to the channels which form a central feature of the Olympic Park have included the largest aquatic planting scheme ever carried out in Britain.




Read more...

More Selected articles



Selected biography







Sir Charles Herbert Bressey CB, CBE (3 January 1874 – 14 April 1951) was a civil engineer and surveyor who specialised in road design. Bressey was Chief Engineer for Roads at the Ministry of Transport from 1921 to 1938. Between 1935 and 1938 he carried out research on road planning and motorway design in preparation for his Highway Development Survey, 1937 for Greater London published in 1938. He served as President of the Institution of Chartered Surveyors in 1938-9.
During World War I, Bressey served in the Royal Engineers and spent time in France and Flanders constructing military roads attaining the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel before he left the army in November 1919, when he joined the Ministry of Transport. His 1938 report proposed a series of high capacity motorways radiating outwards from the city and made recommendations for a series of circular routes around the capital and major road improvements in the central area, including tunnels under Kensington Gardens, Victoria Park and Islington High Street and a viaduct from Rotherhithe to Forest Hill. Although World War II delayed the implementation of any of the recommendations, they were subsequently featured in a number of post war reports such as Sir Patrick Abercrombie's County of London Plan and the Greater London Council's 1960s London Ringways scheme and were the origins of plans that were later combined to create London's orbital motorway, the M25.




Read more...

More Selected biographies












Selected picture





Duck tour converted DUKW amphibious vehicle exiting the River Thames.


More Selected pictures



In the news




30 October – The Queen Elizabeth II bridge between Dartford and Thurrock which carries the southbound lanes of the A282 road over the River Thames was opened 25 years ago by the Queen.[1]
31 October – All of London's Black cabs are enabled for card and contactless payment.[2]
9 November – Seven people are killed and more than 50 injured in a derailment on the Tramlink near Sandilands tram stop in Croydon.[3]
6 December – Waterloo, Victoria, Liverpool Street, London Bridge, Euston, Stratford, Paddington, King's Cross and Clapham Junction are nine of the top ten busiest main line stations in the United Kingdom.[4]
16 December – Night Tube services begin operating on the Piccadilly line.[5]

Archive



Did you know...




...that the ticket hall at Bank station is partly built in the crypt of Nicholas Hawksmoor's church, St Mary Woolnoth?


...that the horse-drawn freight only Surrey Iron Railway between Wandsworth and Croydon was the first railway in London when it opened in 1803?


...that two people have had their coffins transported on the Underground: William Gladstone and Dr Barnardo?


...that a stuffed puffer fish, a samurai sword, human skulls, breast implants and a lawnmower are amongst items handed into TfL's lost property office during its 75-year existence?

More Did you know...











Maps






Geographic London Underground maps






Central area
Complete network


Official maps
Tube · Night Tube · Overground · DLR · London Connections · Bus · Tramlink · Cycle hire
River · Congestion Charge Zone · Low Emission Zone · Source London




Recognised content



 Featured articles (29)
1910 London to Manchester air race • Albert Bridge, London • Aldwych tube station • Albert Stanley, 1st Baron Ashfield • Baker Street and Waterloo Railway • Battersea Bridge • Brill Tramway • Brill railway station • Central London Railway • Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway • Chelsea Bridge • City and South London Railway • Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway • Herne Hill railway station • Charles Holden • London Necropolis Company • Metropolitan Railway • RAF Northolt • Frank Pick • Quainton Road railway station • Richmond Bridge, London • Edgar Speyer • Underground Electric Railways Company of London • Vauxhall Bridge • Waddesdon Road railway station • Wandsworth Bridge • Westcott railway station • Wood Siding railway station • Wotton (Metropolitan Railway) railway station
 Featured lists (4)
List of former and unopened London Underground stations • List of London Underground stations • List of works by Charles Holden • Timeline of the London Underground
 Featured topics (2)
Brill Tramway • Underground Electric Railways Company of London
 Good articles (65)
A1 in London • A215 road • Acton Town tube station • Angel tube station • Arnos Grove tube station • William Henry Barlow • Blackwall Tunnel • BOAC Flight 712 • Bond Street • Bow Back Rivers • Bow Street • Infrastructure of the Brill Tramway • British Airways • Chesham branch • Chiswick Bridge • Coventry Street • Dartford Crossing • Denmark Street • District Railway • Down Street tube station • East Finchley tube station • Elephant & Castle tube station • Embankment tube station • Eurostar • Euston Road • Euston tube station • Fenchurch Street railway station • Fleet Street • Sir John Fowler, 1st Baronet • Gloucester Road tube station • Great Marlborough Street • Hammersmith & City line • Hammerton's Ferry • High Speed 1 • Highgate tube station • History of British Airways • Holborn tube station • Leicester Square • London Country North East • London Necropolis Railway • London Necropolis railway station • London Underground departmental stock • M11 link road protest • Morden tube station • North Circular Road • Northumberland Avenue • Old Kent Road • Oxford Circus tube station • Oxford Street • Pall Mall, London • Park Lane • Charles Pearson • Pentonville Road • Piccadilly • South Kensington tube station • Strand, London • Tillingbourne Bus Company • Trafalgar Square • Upminster Bridge tube station • Vine Street, London • Westminster tube station • Whitechapel Road • Whitehall • Wimbledon and Sutton Railway • Woolwich Ferry




Articles






TfL



Buses
Coaches
Congestion charge
Crossrail
Cycle Hire
Dial-a-Ride
Docklands Light Railway
London Overground
London Underground
Low emission zone
London Rail
River
Source London
Streets
Taxis
Tramlink








Suburban Rail



Abellio Greater Anglia
c2c
Chiltern Railways
First Capital Connect
First Great Western
Heathrow Connect
Heathrow Express
London Overground
South West Trains
Southeastern
Southern
Stansted Express








InterCity &
International Rail



East Coast
East Midlands Trains
Eurostar
First Great Western
First Hull Trains
First ScotRail (Sleeper)
Gatwick Express
Grand Central
London Midland
Virgin Trains








Central &
Major Stations





Termini




Blackfriars
Cannon Street
Charing Cross
Euston
Fenchurch Street
King's Cross
Liverpool Street
London Bridge
Marylebone
Moorgate
Paddington
St Pancras
Victoria
Waterloo









Other




City Thameslink
Clapham Junction
East Croydon
Farringdon
Old Street
Stratford
Vauxhall
Waterloo East











Airports



London City
Biggin Hill
London Gatwick
London Heathrow
London Luton
London Southend
London Stansted








Motorways



M25 London Orbital
M1
M3
M4
M11
M20
M23
M40
A1(M)








Rivers &
Water Transport



Bridges in London
Grand Junction Canal
Lee Navigation
Pool of London
Regent's Canal
River Services
River Thames
Tideway








Museums



London Canal Museum
London Transport Museum
Museum of London Docklands
National Maritime Museum
Royal Mews
Southall Railway Centre









Categories



Transport in London






► Transport in London by borough





► Aviation in London





► Bridges and tunnels in London





► Cycling in London





► Transport design in London







► Docklands Light Railway





► Fare collection systems in London





► History of transport in London





► London Overground





► London Underground







► People associated with transport in London





► Rail transport in London





► Road transport in London





► Trams in London





► Transport authorities in London







► Transport infrastructure in London





► Transport operators in London





► Walking in London





► Water transport in London





► London transport stubs










Wikiproject







This Portal is maintained by WikiProject London Transport.
Things you can do:

Expand a stub: London transport stubs, London railway station stubs.
Contribute to the London Portal, Trains Portal or UK Railways Portal.
Suggestions for new "Did You Know?" facts













What are portals?
List of portals
Featured portals


Purge server cache



 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:London_Transport&oldid=746783685"					
Categories: Transport portalsUnited Kingdom portalsHidden categories: Featured portals 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Portal
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage information 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages



Add links 





 This page was last modified on 29 October 2016, at 14:52.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.256","walltime":"0.433","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2812,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":118807,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":68945,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":27,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  305.128      1 -total"," 31.75%   96.868      1 Portal:London_Transport/Recognised_Content"," 31.33%   95.591      1 Wikipedia:WikiProject_London_Transport/Recognised_content/bot_list"," 24.95%   76.122      7 Template:Random_subpage"," 19.17%   58.485      4 Template:Str_rightc"," 15.39%   46.964      4 Template:Str_sub_long"," 14.71%   44.878      1 Portal:London_Transport/DYK_randomiser"," 14.27%   43.553      8 Template:Str_mid"," 13.39%   40.852      8 Template:Str_mid/core"," 12.70%   38.751      4 Template:Max"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.063","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2697107,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1224","timestamp":"20170210201624","ttl":3600,"transientcontent":true}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":52,"wgHostname":"mw1255"});});
