 






Computer hardware

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For other uses, see Hardware.




PDP-11 CPU board


Computer hardware is the collection of physical components that constitute a computer system. Computer hardware is the physical parts or components of a computer, such as monitor, keyboard, computer data storage, hard disk drive (HDD), graphic card, sound card, memory (RAM), motherboard, and so on, all of which are tangible physical objects.[1] By contrast, software is instructions that can be stored and run by hardware.
Hardware is directed by the software to execute any command or instruction. A combination of hardware and software forms a usable computing system.[2]



Contents


1 Von Neumann architecture
2 Sales
3 Different systems

3.1 Personal computer

3.1.1 Case
3.1.2 Power supply
3.1.3 Motherboard
3.1.4 Expansion cards
3.1.5 Storage devices

3.1.5.1 Fixed media
3.1.5.2 Removable media


3.1.6 Input and output peripherals

3.1.6.1 Input
3.1.6.2 Output device




3.2 Mainframe computer
3.3 Departmental computing
3.4 Supercomputer


4 Hardware upgrade
5 See also
6 References
7 External links



Von Neumann architecture[edit]
Main article: Von Neumann architecture




Von Neumann architecture scheme


The template for all modern computers is the Von Neumann architecture, detailed in a 1945 paper by Hungarian mathematician John von Neumann. This describes a design architecture for an electronic digital computer with subdivisions of a processing unit consisting of an arithmetic logic unit and processor registers, a control unit containing an instruction register and program counter, a memory to store both data and instructions, external mass storage, and input and output mechanisms.[3] The meaning of the term has evolved to mean a stored-program computer in which an instruction fetch and a data operation cannot occur at the same time because they share a common bus. This is referred to as the Von Neumann bottleneck and often limits the performance of the system.[4]
Sales[edit]
For the third consecutive year, U.S. business-to-business channel sales (sales through distributors and commercial resellers) increased, ending 2013 up nearly 6 percent at $61.7 billion. The impressive growth was the fastest sales increase since the end of the recession. Sales growth accelerated in the second half of the year peaking in fourth quarter with a 6.9 percent increase over the fourth quarter of 2012.[5]
Different systems[edit]
There are a number of different types of computer system in use today.
Personal computer[edit]




Basic hardware components of a modern personal computer, including a monitor, a motherboard, a CPU, a RAM, two expansion cards, a power supply, an optical disc drive, a hard disk drive, a keyboard and a mouse






Inside a custom-built computer: power supply at the bottom has its own cooling fan


The personal computer, also known as the PC, is one of the most common types of computer due to its versatility and relatively low price. Laptops are generally very similar, although they may use lower-power or reduced size components, thus lower performance.
Case[edit]
Main article: Computer case
The computer case is a plastic or metal enclosure that houses most of the components. Those found on desktop computers are usually small enough to fit under a desk; however, in recent years more compact designs have become more commonplace, such as the all-in-one style designs from Apple, namely the iMac. A case can be either big or small, but the form factor of motherboard for which it is designed matters more. Laptops are computers that usually come in a clamshell form factor; however, in more recent years, deviations from this form factor, such as laptops that have a detachable screen that become tablet computers in their own right, have started to emerge.
Power supply[edit]
Main article: Power supply unit (computer)
A power supply unit (PSU) converts alternating current (AC) electric power to low-voltage DC power for the internal components of the computer. Laptops are capable of running from a built-in battery, normally for a period of hours.[6]
Motherboard[edit]
Main article: Motherboard
The motherboard is the main component of a computer. It is a board with integrated circuitry that connects the other parts of the computer including the CPU, the RAM, the disk drives (CD, DVD, hard disk, or any others) as well as any peripherals connected via the ports or the expansion slots.
Components directly attached to or to part of the motherboard include:

The CPU (Central Processing Unit), which performs most of the calculations which enable a computer to function, and is sometimes referred to as the brain of the computer. It is usually cooled by a heatsink and fan, or water-cooling system. Most newer CPUs include an on-die Graphics Processing Unit (GPU). The clock speed of CPUs governs how fast it executes instructions, and is measured in GHz; typical values lie between 1 GHz and 5 GHz. Many modern computers have the option to overclock the CPU which enhances performance at the expense of greater thermal output and thus a need for improved cooling.
The chipset, which includes the north bridge, mediates communication between the CPU and the other components of the system, including main memory.
Random-Access Memory (RAM), which stores the code and data that are being actively accessed by the CPU. RAM usually comes on DIMMs in the sizes 2GB, 4GB, and 8GB, but can be much larger.
Read-Only Memory (ROM), which stores the BIOS that runs when the computer is powered on or otherwise begins execution, a process known as Bootstrapping, or "booting" or "booting up". The BIOS (Basic Input Output System) includes boot firmware and power management firmware. Newer motherboards use Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) instead of BIOS.
Buses that connect the CPU to various internal components and to expand cards for graphics and sound.
The CMOS battery, which powers the memory for date and time in the BIOS chip. This battery is generally a watch battery.
The video card (also known as the graphics card), which processes computer graphics. More powerful graphics cards are better suited to handle strenuous tasks, such as playing intensive video games.

Expansion cards[edit]
Main article: Expansion card
An expansion card in computing is a printed circuit board that can be inserted into an expansion slot of a computer motherboard or backplane to add functionality to a computer system via the expansion bus. Expansions cards can be used to obtain or expand on features not offered by the motherboard.
Storage devices[edit]
Main article: Computer data storage
A storage device is any computing hardware that is used for storing, porting and extracting data files and objects. It can hold and store information both temporarily and permanently, and can be internal or external to a computer, server or any similar computing device. It refers to computer components and recording media that retain digital data. Data storage is a core function and fundamental component of computers.
Fixed media[edit]
Data is stored by a computer using a variety of media. Hard disk drives are found in virtually all older computers, due to their high capacity and low cost, but solid-state drives are faster and more power efficient, although currently more expensive than hard drives, so are often found in more expensive computers. Some systems may use a disk array controller for greater performance or reliability.
Removable media[edit]
To transfer data between computers, a USB flash drive or optical disc may be used. Their usefulness depends on being readable by other systems; the majority of machines have an optical disk drive, and virtually all have a USB port.
Input and output peripherals[edit]
Main article: Peripheral
Input and output devices are typically housed externally to the main computer chassis. The following are either standard or very common to many computer systems.
Input[edit]
Input devices allow the user to enter information into the system, or control its operation. Most personal computers have a mouse and keyboard, but laptop systems typically use a touchpad instead of a mouse. Other input devices include webcams, microphones, joysticks, and image scanners.
Output device[edit]
Output devices display information in a human readable form. Such devices could include printers, speakers, monitors or a Braille embosser.
Mainframe computer[edit]
Main article: Mainframe Computer
A mainframe computer is a much larger computer that typically fills a room and may cost many hundreds or thousands of times as much as a personal computer. They are designed to perform large numbers of calculations for governments and large enterprises.




An IBM System z9 mainframe


Departmental computing[edit]
Main article: Minicomputer
In the 1960s and 1970s, more and more departments started to use cheaper and dedicated systems for specific purposes like process control and laboratory automation.
Supercomputer[edit]
Main article: Supercomputer
A supercomputer is superficially similar to a mainframe, but is instead intended for extremely demanding computational tasks. As of June 2016[update], the fastest supercomputer in the world is the Sunway TaihuLight, in Jiangsu, China.[7]
The term supercomputer does not refer to a specific technology. Rather it indicates the fastest computations available at any given time. In mid 2011, the fastest supercomputers boasted speeds exceeding one petaflop, or 1 quadrillion (10^15 or 1,000 trillion) floating point operations per second. Super computers are fast but extremely costly so they are generally used by large organizations to execute computationally demanding tasks involving large data sets. Super computers typically run military and scientific applications. Although they cost millions of dollars, they are also being used for commercial applications where huge amounts of data must be analyzed. For example, large banks employ supercomputers to calculate the risks and returns of various investment strategies, and healthcare organizations use them to analyze giant databases of patient data to determine optimal treatments for various diseases and problems incurring to the country.
Hardware upgrade[edit]
When using computer hardware, an upgrade means adding new hardware to a computer that improves its performance, adds capacity or new features. For example, a user could perform a hardware upgrade to replace the hard drive with a SSD to get a boost in performance or increase the amount of files that may be stored. Also, the user could increase the RAM so the computer may run more smoothly. The user could add a USB 3.0 expansion card in order to fully use USB 3.0 devices, or could upgrade the GPU for extra rendering power. Performing such hardware upgrades may be necessary for older computers to meet a programs' system requirements.
See also[edit]


Information technology portal



Computer architecture
Electronic hardware
List of computer hardware manufacturers
Open-source computing hardware

References[edit]


^ "Parts of computer". Microsoft. Retrieved 5 December 2013. 
^ Smither, Roger. "Use of computers in audiovisual archives". UNESCO. Retrieved 5 December 2013. 
^ von Neumann, John (1945). "First Draft of a Report on the EDVAC" (PDF). 
^ Markgraf, Joey D. (2007). "The Von Neumann bottleneck". Archived from the original on 2011-06-09. Retrieved 24 August 2011. 
^ "US B2B Channel sales reach nearly $62 Billion in 2013, According to The NPD Group". NPD Group. February 4, 2014. 
^ "How long should a laptop battery last?". Computer Hope. Retrieved 9 December 2013. 
^ Alba, Davey. "China's Tianhe-2 Caps Top 10 Supercomputers". IEEE. Retrieved 9 December 2013. 


External links[edit]

 Media related to Computer hardware at Wikimedia Commons
 Learning materials related to Computer hardware at Wikiversity







v
t
e


Basic computer components






Input devices



Keyboard
Image scanner
Microphone
Pointing device

Graphics tablet
Joystick
Light pen
Mouse

Optical


Pointing stick
Touchpad
Touchscreen
Trackball


Webcam

Softcam


Refreshable braille display








Output devices



Monitor
Refreshable braille display
Printer
Speakers
Plotter








Removable
data storage



Optical disc drive

CD-RW
DVD+RW
BD-R


Disk pack
Floppy disk
Memory card
USB flash drive








Computer case



Central processing unit (CPU)
HDD / SSD / SSHD
Motherboard
Network interface controller
Power supply
Random-access memory (RAM)
Sound card
Video card








Data ports



Ethernet
FireWire (IEEE 1394)
Parallel port
Serial port
USB
Audio jack












v
t
e


Major fields of computer science







Note: This template roughly follows the 2012 ACM Computing classification.






Hardware



Printed circuit board
Peripheral
Integrated circuit
Very-large-scale integration
Energy consumption
Electronic design automation








Computer systems
organization



Computer architecture
Embedded system
Real-time computing
Dependability








Networks



Network architecture
Network protocol
Network components
Network scheduler
Network performance evaluation
Network service








Software organization



Interpreter
Middleware
Virtual machine
Operating system
Software quality








Software notations
and tools



Programming paradigm
Programming language
Compiler
Domain-specific language
Modeling language
Software framework
Integrated development environment
Software configuration management
Software library
Software repository








Software development



Software development process
Requirements analysis
Software design
Software construction
Software deployment
Software maintenance
Programming team
Open-source model








Theory of computation



Model of computation
Formal language
Automata theory
Computational complexity theory
Logic
Semantics








Algorithms



Algorithm design
Analysis of algorithms
Randomized algorithm
Computational geometry








Mathematics
of computing



Discrete mathematics
Probability
Statistics
Mathematical software
Information theory
Mathematical analysis
Numerical analysis








Information
systems



Database management system
Information storage systems
Enterprise information system
Social information systems
Geographic information system
Decision support system
Process control system
Multimedia information system
Data mining
Digital library
Computing platform
Digital marketing
World Wide Web
Information retrieval








Security



Cryptography
Formal methods
Security services
Intrusion detection system
Hardware security
Network security
Information security
Application security








Human–computer
interaction



Interaction design
Social computing
Ubiquitous computing
Visualization
Accessibility








Concurrency



Concurrent computing
Parallel computing
Distributed computing
Multithreading
Multiprocessing








Artificial
intelligence



Natural language processing
Knowledge representation and reasoning
Computer vision
Automated planning and scheduling
Search methodology
Control method
Philosophy of artificial intelligence
Distributed artificial intelligence








Machine learning



Supervised learning
Unsupervised learning
Reinforcement learning
Multi-task learning
Machine learning algorithms
Cross-validation








Graphics



Animation
Rendering
Image manipulation
Graphics processing unit
Mixed reality
Virtual reality
Image compression
Solid modeling








Applied
computing



E-commerce
Enterprise software
Computational mathematics
Computational physics
Computational chemistry
Computational biology
Computational social science
Computational engineering
Computational healthcare
Digital art
Electronic publishing
Cyberwarfare
Electronic voting
Video game
Word processing
Operations research
Educational technology
Document management











 Computer science portal









Authority control



GND: 4023422-8









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computer_hardware&oldid=764144982"					
Categories: Computer hardwareElectronicsHidden categories: Articles containing potentially dated statements from June 2016All articles containing potentially dated statementsCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiers 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Article
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata itemCite this page 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsWikibooks 



Languages


AfrikaansAlemannischالعربيةAragonésAsturianuবাংলাБеларускаяБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFøroysktFrançaisGaeilgeGàidhligGalegoગુજરાતી한국어हिन्दीHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaIsiXhosaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaKaszëbscziҚазақшаKurdîລາວLatinaLatviešuLëtzebuergeschLietuviųLingálaMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംBahasa MelayuMirandésМонголမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपालीनेपाल भाषा日本語Norsk bokmålNorsk nynorskОлык марийଓଡ଼ିଆPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsRomânăRuna SimiРусиньскыйРусскийScotsShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaTagalogతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng ViệtWinarayייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 7 February 2017, at 09:30.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.220","walltime":"0.282","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1143,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":61122,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":709,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":1,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  196.068      1 -total"," 34.23%   67.112      1 Template:Reflist"," 25.57%   50.125      6 Template:Cite_web"," 11.12%   21.808      2 Template:Navbox"," 10.92%   21.412      1 Template:Other_uses"," 10.77%   21.115      1 Template:Commons_category-inline"," 10.10%   19.798      2 Template:Sister-inline","  7.95%   15.578      1 Template:As_of","  7.09%   13.899     10 Template:Main_article","  6.97%   13.664      1 Template:Authority_control"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.077","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3125119,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1179","timestamp":"20170211141334","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":373,"wgHostname":"mw1179"});});
