 







Wikipedia:What "Ignore all rules" means

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




This page is an essay, containing the advice or opinions of one or more Wikipedia contributors on the Wikipedia:Ignore all rules policy. Essays are not Wikipedia policies or guidelines. Some essays represent widespread norms; others only represent minority viewpoints.


Shortcuts:

WP:WIARM
WP:IAR?








This page in a nutshell: Editing Wikipedia is all about making improvements, not following rules. However, WP:IAR should not be used as a reason to make unhelpful edits.




“
If a rule prevents you from improving or maintaining Wikipedia, ignore it.
”


— Wikipedia:Ignore all rules





Contents


1 What "Ignore all rules" means
2 History
3 What "Ignore all rules" does not mean
4 Use common sense

4.1 There is no common sense


5 Diagram
6 See also
7 References



What "Ignore all rules" means

Rules are mostly made to be broken and are too often for the lazy to hide behind.
— Douglas MacArthur[1]


Rules are for fools.
— Unknown. (As used by coaches/motivators)[2]


By all means break the rules, and break them beautifully, deliberately and well. That is one of the ends for which they exist.
— Robert Bringhurst[3]


The code is more what you call "guidelines" than actual rules.
— Captain Barbossa[4]


The rules are only barriers to keep children from falling.
— Madame de Staël[5]


Give me the judgment of balanced minds in preference to laws every time. Codes and manuals create patterned behavior. All patterned behavior tends to go unquestioned, gathering destructive momentum.
— Darwi Odrade[6]


Be a sinner and sin boldly[...]
— Martin Luther[7]

You do not need to read any rules before contributing to Wikipedia. If you do what seems sensible, it will usually be right, and if it's not right, don't worry. Even the worst mistakes are easy to correct: older versions of a page remain in the revision history and can be restored. If we disagree with your changes, we'll talk about it thoughtfully and politely, and we'll figure out what to do. So don't worry. Be bold, and enjoy helping to build this free encyclopedia.

You are not required to learn the rules before contributing. Yes, we already said that, but it is worth repeating.
Don't follow written instructions mindlessly, but rather, consider how the encyclopedia is improved or damaged by each edit (see also Use common sense, below).
Rules derive their power to compel not from being written down on a page labeled "guideline" or "policy", but from being a reflection of the shared opinions and practices of many editors (see also Wikipedia:Consensus).
Most rules are ultimately descriptive, not prescriptive; they describe existing current practice. They sometimes lag behind the practices they describe (see also Wikipedia:Product, process, policy).
Wikilawyering doesn't work. Loopholes and technicalities do not exist on the Wiki. Wikipedia is not a bureaucracy; nor moot court, nor nomic, nor Mao.
The spirit of the rule trumps the letter of the rule. The common purpose of building a free encyclopedia trumps both. If this common purpose is better served by ignoring the letter of a particular rule, then that rule should be ignored (see also Wikipedia:The rules are principles).
Following the rules is less important than using good judgment and being thoughtful and considerate, always bearing in mind that good judgment is not displayed only by those who agree with you (see also Wikipedia:Civility).

History
Ignore all rules is one of the oldest rules on Wikipedia, written by Larry Sanger in 2001. The original wording was a bit different from today's version. It said: "If rules make you nervous and depressed, and not desirous of participating in the wiki, then ignore them entirely and go about your business."
Note that while ignoring all rules is alright, it is subtly but importantly different from deliberately breaking them. Meditate on that carefully before you actually apply this rule.
What "Ignore all rules" does not mean




Sometimes you need to draw the limit



Pedantry and mastery are opposite attitudes toward rules. To apply a rule to the letter, rigidly, unquestioningly, in cases where it fits and in cases where it does not fit, is pedantry... To apply a rule with natural ease, with judgment, noticing the cases where it fits, and without ever letting the words of the rule obscure the purpose of the action or the opportunities of the situation, is mastery.
— George Pólya[8]


Ignore all rules – including this one.

Despite its name, "Ignore all rules" does not sabotage the other rules. Its purpose is to keep them from sabotaging what we're doing here: building a free encyclopedia. Rules have zero importance compared with that goal. If they aid that goal, good. If they interfere with it, they are instantly negated.

"Ignore all rules" does not prevent the enforcement of certain policies. You cannot violate Wikipedia:Office actions without being blocked for disruption.
"Ignore all rules" does not mean that every action is justifiable. It is neither a trump card nor a carte blanche. Rule ignorers must justify how their actions improve the encyclopedia if challenged. Actually, everyone should be able to do that at all times. In cases of conflict, what counts as an improvement is decided by consensus.
"Ignore all rules" does not stop you from pointing out a rule to someone who has broken it, but do consider that his or her judgment may have been correct, and that they almost certainly thought it was (see also Wikipedia:Assume good faith).
"Ignore all rules" is not in itself a valid answer if someone asks you why you broke a rule. Most of the rules are derived from a lot of thoughtful experience and exist for pretty good reasons; they should therefore only be broken for good reasons.
"Ignore all rules" is not an exemption from accountability. You're still responsible for reasonably foreseeable effects of your actions on the encyclopedia and on other editors.
"Ignore all rules" is not an invitation to use Wikipedia for purposes contrary to that of building a free encyclopedia (see also Wikipedia:About and Wikipedia:What Wikipedia is not).
"Ignore all rules" does not mean there is necessarily an exception to every rule. A typical copyright violation, for instance, does not make for a better free encyclopedia.
"Ignore all rules" is not a Get Out of Jail Free card. If you are blocked or sanctioned for a rule-breaking edit that does not improve the encyclopedia, then you may not use "Ignore all rules" as a reason to be unblocked or unsanctioned.


Use common sense
"WP:COMMON" redirects here. For other uses, see WP:COMMON (disambiguation).

Shortcuts:

WP:UCS
WP:COMMON
WP:SENSE
WP:COMMONSENSE
WP:NOCOMMON


Wikipedia has many policies or what many consider "rules". Instead of following every rule, it is acceptable to use common sense as you go about editing. Being too wrapped up in rules can cause loss of perspective, so there are times when it is better to ignore a rule. Even if a contribution "violates" the precise wording of a rule, it might still be a good contribution. Similarly, just because something is not forbidden in a written document, or is even explicitly permitted, doesn't mean it's a good idea in the given situation. Our goal is to improve Wikipedia so that it better informs readers. Being able to articulate "common sense" reasons why a change helps the encyclopedia is good, and editors should not ignore those reasons because they don't include a bunch of policy shortcuts. The principle of the rules—to make Wikipedia and its sister projects thrive—is more important than the letter. Editors must use their best judgment.
Why isn't "use common sense" an official policy? It doesn't need to be; as a fundamental principle, it is above any policy.

There is no common sense

Good sense is of all things in the world the most equally distributed, for everybody thinks he is so well supplied with it that even those most difficult to please in all other matters never desire more of it than they already possess.
— René Descartes[9]

When advancing a position or justifying an action, base your argument on existing agreements, community foundation issues and the interests of the encyclopedia, not your own common sense. Exhorting another editor to "just use common sense" is likely to be taken as insulting, for good reasons. If in a particular case you feel that literally following a rule harms the encyclopedia, or that doing something which the rules technically allow degrades it, then instead of telling someone who disagrees to use common sense, just focus on explaining why ignoring the rules will improve Wikipedia in that instance.
Be careful about citing this principle too aggressively. While it's quite acceptable to explain your own actions by saying, "it seemed like common sense to me," you should be careful not to imply that other editors are lacking in common sense, which may be seen as uncivil. Wikipedians come from diverse ethnic, religious, political, cultural and ideological backgrounds and have vastly different perceptions. Other editors are likely to ascribe very different meanings and values to words and concepts than you, so try to state your arguments as fully as possible. Citing concrete policies and guidelines is likely to be more effective than simply citing "common sense" and leaving it at that.
Diagram



See also

Wikipedia:Be bold
Wikipedia:Understanding IAR
Wikipedia:Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Wikipedia:Exceptions should leave the rule intact
Wikipedia:Taking the road less traveled
Wikipedia:Reasonability Rule
Wikipedia:Follow all rules
Spirit of the law

References


^ Ganoe, William (1962). MacArthur Close-Up. p. 137. 
^ Grayson, Dr. Randall. "Adaptability". Retrieved 7 September 2012. 
^ Bringhurst, Robert (2005). The Elements of Typographic Style (3.1 ed.). Hartley & Marks. p. 10. ISBN 0-88179-206-3. 
^ Fictional character, in the 2003 film Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl
^ Staël-Holstein, Ana Luisa Germana Necker, Baroness (1813). De l'Allemagne. Pt. 4, Ch. 9. Ces règles ne sont que des barrières pour empêcher les enfants de tomber. 
^ Herbert, Frank (1987). Chapterhouse: Dune. Ace Books. p. 237. ISBN 0-441-10267-0. 
^ Luther, Martin (1521). "Let Your Sins Be Strong: A Letter From Luther to Melanchthon Letter no. 99, 1 August 1521, From the Wartburg (Segment) Translated by Erika Bullmann Flores from: _Dr. Martin Luther's Saemmtliche Schriften_ Dr, Johannes Georg Walch, Ed. (St. Louis: Concordia Publishing House, N.D.), Vol. 15,cols. 2585-2590.". Retrieved 18 June 2013. 
^ Pólya, George (1945). How to Solve It. Princeton Science Library. p. 148. ISBN 0-691-11966-X. 
^ Descartes, René (1637). Le Discours de la Méthode. Part I, incipit. Le bon sens est la chose du monde la mieux partagée; car chacun pense en être si bien pourvu, que ceux même qui sont les plus difficiles à contenter en toute autre chose n'ont point coutume d'en désirer plus qu'ils en ont. 








v
t
e


Wikipedia principles










   


Five pillars
Statement of our principles




Jimbo's statement
Historic principles




Simplified ruleset
Synopsis of our conventions




Wikimedia principles
Common to all projects
(in Meta-Wiki)




Principles
Other essays on Wikipedia's principles















v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:What_%22Ignore_all_rules%22_means&oldid=757834875"					
Categories: Wikipedia essaysWikipedia essays explaining processesHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


العربيةবাংলাCatalàΕλληνικάEspañolفارسیGalegoગુજરાતી한국어HrvatskiItalianoМакедонскиNederlands日本語PolskiRomânăසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSuomiTürkçeاردوVènetoTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 2 January 2017, at 00:45.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":52,"wgHostname":"mw1246"});});
