 







Wikipedia:Consensus

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"WP:CON" redirects here; you may be looking for WP:Conflict of interest, Help:Edit conflict, WikiConvention/Conference or WP:WikiProject Containers.



This page documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.


Shortcuts:

WP:CON
WP:CONS








This page in a nutshell: Consensus is Wikipedia's fundamental model for editorial decision-making, and is marked by addressing legitimate concerns held by editors through a process of compromise while following Wikipedia policies.




Conduct policies




Block evasion
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
Non-discrimination policy
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry
Username policy
Vandalism







v
t
e





Consensus refers to the primary way decisions are made on Wikipedia, and it is accepted as the best method to achieve our goals, i.e. to achieve our five pillars. Consensus on Wikipedia does not mean unanimity (which, although an ideal result, is not always achievable); nor is it the result of a vote. Decision-making involves an effort to incorporate all editors' legitimate concerns, while respecting Wikipedia's policies and guidelines.
This policy describes how consensus is understood on Wikipedia, how to determine whether it has been achieved (and how to proceed if it has not), and describes exceptions to the principle that all decisions are made by consensus.



Contents


1 Achieving consensus

1.1 Through editing
1.2 Through discussion
1.3 Consensus-building

1.3.1 In talk pages
1.3.2 By soliciting outside opinions
1.3.3 Administrative or community intervention
1.3.4 Pitfalls and errors




2 Determining consensus

2.1 Level of consensus
2.2 No consensus


3 Consensus can change
4 Decisions not subject to consensus of editors
5 See also



Achieving consensus
Policy shortcut:


WP:CONACHIEVE



Editors usually reach consensus as a natural process. After one changes a page, others who read it can choose whether or not to further edit. When editors do not reach agreement by editing, discussion on the associated talk pages continues the process toward consensus.
A consensus decision takes into account all of the proper concerns raised. Ideally, it arrives with an absence of objections, but often we must settle for as wide an agreement as can be reached. When there is no wide agreement, consensus-building involves adapting the proposal to bring in dissenters without losing those who accepted the initial proposal.
Through editing
Policy shortcut:


WP:EDITCONSENSUS







A simplified diagram of how consensus is reached. When an edit is made, other editors may either accept it, change it, or revert it. Seek a compromise means "attempt to find a generally acceptable solution", either through continued editing or through discussion.


Further information: Wikipedia:Editing policy; Wikipedia:Be bold; and Wikipedia:BOLD, revert, discuss cycle
Consensus is a normal and usually implicit and invisible process across Wikipedia. Any edit that is not disputed or reverted by another editor can be assumed to have consensus. Should that edit later be revised by another editor without dispute, it can be assumed that a new consensus has been reached. In this way, the encyclopedia is gradually added to and improved over time.
All edits should be explained (unless the reason for them is obvious) – either by clear edit summaries indicating the reason why the change was made, or by discussion on the article talk page. Substantive, informative edit summaries indicate what issues need to be addressed in subsequent efforts to reach consensus. Edit summaries are especially important when reverting another editor's good faith work. Repeated reversions are contrary to Wikipedia policy under Edit warring, except for specific policy-based material (such as WP:BLP exceptions) and for reversions of vandalism.
Except in cases affected by content policies or guidelines, most disputes over content may be resolved through minor changes rather than taking an all-or-nothing position. Often, a simple rewording will satisfy all editors' concerns. Whether changes come through editing or through discussion, the encyclopedia is best improved through collaboration and consensus, not through combat and capitulation.
Through discussion
When agreement cannot be reached through editing alone, the consensus-forming process becomes more explicit: editors open a section on the talk page and try to work out the dispute through discussion. Here editors try to persuade others, using reasons based in policy, sources, and common sense; they can also suggest alternative solutions or compromises that may satisfy all concerns. The result might be an agreement that does not satisfy anyone completely, but that all recognize as a reasonable solution. Consensus is an ongoing process on Wikipedia; it is often better to accept a less-than-perfect compromise – with the understanding that the page is gradually improving – than to try to fight to implement a particular preferred version immediately. The quality of articles with combative editors is, as a rule, far lower than that of articles where editors take a longer view.
When editors have a particularly difficult time reaching a consensus, several processes are available for consensus-building (third opinions, requests for comment), and even more extreme processes that will take authoritative steps to end the dispute (administrator intervention, formal mediation, and arbitration). Keep in mind, however, that administrators are primarily concerned with policy and editor behavior and will not decide content issues authoritatively. They may block editors for behaviors that interfere with the consensus process (such as edit-warring, abuse of multiple accounts, or a lack of civility). They may also make decisions about whether edits are or are not allowable under policy, but will not usually go beyond such actions.
Consensus-building
Further information: Wikipedia:Dispute resolution
Editors who maintain a neutral, detached, and civil attitude can usually reach consensus on an article through the process described above. They may still occasionally find themselves at an impasse, either because they cannot find rational grounds to settle a dispute or because one or both sides of the discussion become emotionally or ideologically invested in winning an argument. What follows are suggestions for resolving intractable disputes, along with descriptions of several formal and informal processes that may help.
In talk pages
See also: Wikipedia:Talk page guidelines
Policy shortcut:


WP:TALKDONTREVERT



Be bold, but not rash. In most cases, the first thing to try is an edit to the article, and sometimes making such an edit will resolve a dispute. Use clear edit summaries that explain the purpose of the edit. If the edit is reverted, try making a compromise edit that addresses the other editors' concerns. Edit summaries are useful, but do not try to discuss disputes across multiple edit summaries; that is generally viewed as edit warring and may incur sanctions. If an edit is reverted and further edits seem likely to meet the same fate, create a new section on the article's talk page to discuss the issue.
In determining consensus, consider the quality of the arguments, the history of how they came about, the objections of those who disagree, and existing policies and guidelines. The quality of an argument is more important than whether it represents a minority or a majority view. The arguments "I just don't like it" and "I just like it" usually carry no weight whatsoever.
Limit article talk page discussions to discussion of sources, article focus, and policy. If an edit is challenged, or is likely to be challenged, editors should use talk pages to explain why an addition, change, or removal improves the article, and hence the encyclopedia. Consensus can be assumed if no editors object to a change. Editors who ignore talk page discussions yet continue to edit in or revert disputed material, or who stonewall discussions, may be guilty of disruptive editing and incur sanctions. Consensus cannot always be assumed simply because editors stop responding to talk page discussions in which they have already participated.
The goal of a consensus-building discussion is to resolve disputes in a way that reflects Wikipedia's goals and policies while angering as few contributors as possible. Contributors with good social skills and good negotiation skills are more likely to be successful than those who are less than civil to others.
By soliciting outside opinions
When talk page discussions fail – generally because two editors (or two groups of editors) simply cannot see eye to eye on an issue – Wikipedia has several established processes to attract outside editors to offer opinions. This is often useful to break simple, good-faith deadlocks, because uninvolved editors can bring in fresh perspectives, and can help involved editors see middle ground that they cannot see for themselves. The main resources for this are as follows:

Third opinions
3O is reserved for cases where exactly two editors are in dispute. A neutral third party will give non-binding advice on the dispute.
Noticeboards
Most policy and guideline pages, and many Wikipedia projects, have noticeboards for interested editors. Posting neutrally worded notice of the dispute on applicable noticeboards will make the dispute more visible to other editors who may have worthwhile opinions.
Dispute Resolution Noticeboard
For disputes involving more than two parties, moderators help the parties come to consensus by suggesting analysis, critiques, compromises, or mediation, but generally limited to simple disputes which can quickly be resolved.
Formal mediation
For disputes involving many parties or complicated issues or which otherwise need more time for resolution than is allowed at the Dispute Resolution Noticeboard, the Mediation Committee is staffed by members with proven mediation ability.
Requests for comment
Placement of a formal neutrally worded notice on the article talk page inviting others to participate which is transcluded onto RfC noticeboards.
Village pump
Neutrally worded notification of a dispute here also may bring in additional editors who may help.

Many of these discussions will involve polls of one sort or another; but as consensus is determined by the quality of arguments (not by a simple counted majority), polls should be regarded as structured discussions rather than voting. Responses indicating individual explanations of positions using Wikipedia policies and guidelines are given the highest weight.
Administrative or community intervention
Policy shortcut:


WP:CONADMIN



In some cases, disputes are personal or ideological rather than mere disagreements about content, and these may require the intervention of administrators or the community as a whole. Sysops will not rule on content, but may intervene to enforce policy (such as WP:BLP) or to impose sanctions on editors who are disrupting the consensus process. Sometimes merely asking for an administrator's attention on a talk page will suffice; as a rule, sysops have large numbers of pages watchlisted, and there is a likelihood that someone will see it and respond. However, there are established resources for working with intransigent editors, as follows:

Noticeboards
As noted previously, policy pages generally have noticeboards, and many administrators watch them.
Administrators' incident noticeboard and general Administrators' noticeboard
These are noticeboards for administrators. They are high-volume noticeboards and should be used sparingly. Use AN for issues that need eyes but may not need immediate action; use ANI for more pressing issues. Do not use either except at need.
Requests for arbitration
The final step for intractable disputes. The Arbitration Committee may rule on almost any aspect of a dispute other than on a content dispute, and has broad powers in its decisions.

Pitfalls and errors
The following are common mistakes made by editors when trying to build consensus:

Off-wiki discussions. Discussions on other websites, web forums, IRC, by e-mail, or otherwise off the project are generally discouraged, and are not taken into account when determining consensus "on-wiki". In some cases, such off-wiki communication may generate suspicion and mistrust. Most Wikipedia-related discussions should be held on Wikipedia where they can be viewed by all participants.
Canvassing, sock puppetry, and meat puppetry. Any effort to gather participants to a community discussion that has the effect of biasing that discussion is unacceptable. While it is fine – even encouraged – to invite people into a discussion to obtain new insights and arguments, it is not acceptable to invite only people favorable to a particular point of view, or to invite people in a way that will prejudice their opinions on the matter. Using an alternative persona ("sock puppet", or "sock") to influence consensus is absolutely forbidden. Neutral, informative messages to Wikipedia noticeboards, WikiProjects, or editors are permitted; but actions that could reasonably be interpreted as an attempt to "stuff the ballot box" or otherwise compromise the consensus-building process are considered disruptive editing.
Tendentious editing. The continuous, aggressive pursuit of an editorial goal is considered disruptive, and should be avoided. Editors should listen, respond, and cooperate to build a better article. Editors who refuse to allow any consensus except the one they insist on, and who filibuster indefinitely to attain that goal, risk damaging the consensus process.


Shortcuts:

WP:FORUMSHOP
WP:ADMINSHOP
WP:OTHERPARENT



Forum shopping, admin shopping, and spin-doctoring. Raising essentially the same issue on multiple noticeboards and talk pages, or to multiple administrators, or any of these repetitively, is unhelpful to finding and achieving consensus. It does not help develop consensus to try different forums in the hope of finding one where you get the answer you want. (This is also known as "asking the other parent".) Queries placed on noticeboards and talk pages should be phrased as neutrally as possible, in order to get uninvolved and neutral additional opinions. Where multiple issues do exist, then the raising of the individual issues on the correct pages may be reasonable, but in that case it is normally best to give links to show where else you have raised the question.

Determining consensus
See also: Wikipedia:Closing discussions
Consensus is ascertained by the quality of the arguments given on the various sides of an issue, as viewed through the lens of Wikipedia policy.
Level of consensus
Policy shortcuts:


WP:CONLIMITED
WP:Local consensus
WP:CONLEVEL



Consensus among a limited group of editors, at one place and time, cannot override community consensus on a wider scale. For instance, unless they can convince the broader community that such action is right, participants in a WikiProject cannot decide that some generally accepted policy or guideline does not apply to articles within its scope. WikiProject advice pages, information pages and template documentation pages written by a single individual or several participants who have not formally been approved by the community through the policy and guideline proposal process have no more status than an essay.
Wikipedia has a higher standard of participation and consensus for changes to policies and guidelines than to other types of pages. This is because they reflect established consensus, and their stability and consistency are important to the community. As a result, editors often propose substantive changes on the talk page first to permit discussion before implementing the change. Changes may be made without prior discussion, but they are subject to a high level of scrutiny. The community is more likely to accept edits to policy if they are made slowly and conservatively, with active efforts to seek out input and agreement from others.
No consensus
Policy shortcuts:


WP:NOCON
WP:NOCONSENSUS



Discussions sometimes result in no consensus to take or not take an action. What happens next depends on the context:

In deletion discussions, a lack of consensus normally results in the article, page, image, or other content being kept.
In discussions of proposals to add, modify or remove material in articles, a lack of consensus commonly results in retaining the version of the article as it was prior to the proposal or bold edit. However, for contentious matters related to living people, a lack of consensus often results in the removal of the contentious matter, regardless of whether the proposal was to add, modify or remove it.
When actions by administrators are contested and the discussion results in no consensus either for the action or for reverting the action, the action is normally reverted.
In disputes over external links, disputed links are removed unless and until there is a consensus to include them.
In article title discussions (WP:TITLECHANGES), the policy gives a default action for a no-consensus result:




"If it has never been stable, or it has been unstable for a long time, and no consensus can be reached on what the title should be, default to the title used by the first major contributor after the article ceased to be a stub."



Consensus can change
Policy shortcuts:


WP:CCC
WP:TALKEDABOUTIT



Editors may propose a change to current consensus, especially to raise previously unconsidered arguments or circumstances. On the other hand, proposing to change a recent consensus can be disruptive.
Editors may propose a consensus change by discussion or editing. That said, in most cases, an editor who knows a proposed change will modify a matter resolved by past discussion should propose that change by discussion. Editors who revert a change proposed by an edit should generally avoid terse explanations (such as "against consensus") which provide little guidance to the proposing editor (or, if you do use such terse explanations, it is helpful to also include a link to the discussion where the consensus was formed).
Decisions not subject to consensus of editors
Certain policies and decisions made by the Wikimedia Foundation ("WMF"), its officers, and the Arbitration Committee of Wikipedia are outside the purview of editor consensus.
Policy shortcut:


WP:CONEXCEPT




The WMF has legal control over, and liability for, Wikipedia. Decisions, rulings, and acts of the WMF Board and its duly appointed designees take precedence over, and preempt, consensus. A consensus among editors that any such decision, ruling, or act violates Wikimedia Foundation policies may be communicated to the WMF in writing.
Office actions are not permitted to be reversed by editors except by prior explicit office permission.
The English Wikipedia Arbitration Committee may issue binding decisions, within its scope and responsibilities, that override consensus. The committee has a noticeboard, Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests/Amendment, for requests that such decisions be amended, and may amend such decisions at any time.
Some matters that may seem subject to the consensus of the community at the English-language Wikipedia (en.wikipedia.org) are, in fact, in a separate domain. In particular, the community of MediaWiki software developers, including both paid Wikimedia Foundation staff and volunteers, and the activities of Wikimedia Commons, are largely separate entities, as are the many non-English Wikipedias. These independent, co-equal communities operate however they deem necessary or appropriate, such as adding, removing, or changing software features (see meta:Limits to configuration changes), or accepting or rejecting images, even if their actions are not endorsed by editors here. This does not constitute an exhaustive list as much as a reminder that the decisions taken under this project apply only to the workings of the self-governing community of English Wikipedia.

See also



This page is referenced from the glossary.



For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the dashboard.
Information pages and Wikipedia essays concerning consensus:

Wikipedia:Essay directory#Discussions and consensus
Wikipedia:Closing discussions
Wikipedia:How to contribute to Wikipedia guidance
Wikipedia:Silence does not imply consent when drafting new policies

Articles concerning consensus:

Consensus decision-making
False-consensus effect
Truth by consensus








v
t
e


Wikipedia principles










   


Five pillars
Statement of our principles




Jimbo's statement
Historic principles




Simplified ruleset
Synopsis of our conventions




Wikimedia principles
Common to all projects
(in Meta-Wiki)




Principles
Other essays on Wikipedia's principles















v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












v
t
e


Wikipedia accounts and governance






Unregistered (IP) users



Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper








Registered users



New account
Logging in

Reset passwords


Username policy

Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention


Unified login or SUL
Alternate account








Account security



Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication

Simple 2FA
2FA for AWB


Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts








Blocks, global locks,
bans, sanctions



Blocking policy

FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock


Appealing a block

Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System


Blocking IP addresses

Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies


Global locks
Banning policy

ArbCom appeals


Sanctions

Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay


Long-term abuse
Standard offer








Related to accounts



Sock puppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak

Enforcer


Retiring

Courtesy vanishing


Clean start

Quiet return










User groups
and global user groups



Requests for permissions

Admin instructions
Admin guide


Account creator

PERM


Autopatrolled

PERM


AutoWikiBrowser

PERM


Confirmed

PERM


Extended confirmed

PERM


File mover

PERM


Mass message sender

PERM


New page reviewer

PERM


Page mover

PERM


Pending changes reviewer

PERM


Rollback

PERM


Template editor

PERM


IP-block-exempt

Requests


Courses access

Requests


Bot accounts

Requests


Global rights policy

OTRS Volunteer Response Team










Advanced user groups



Administrators

RfA


Bureaucrats

RfB


Edit filter manager

Requests


CheckUser and Oversight

Requests










Committees and related



Arbitration Committee
Mediation Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks








Governance



Administration

FAQ


Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation

Meta-Wiki


Leadership opportunities
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Unbundling administrators' powers
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Consensus&oldid=764766460"					
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia glossary itemsWikipedia conduct policiesWikipedia consensusHidden categories: Wikipedia move-protected project pagesWikipedia semi-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


WikiversityWikivoyage 



Languages


العربيةঅসমীয়াAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБеларускаяБългарскиBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaCymraegDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaItalianoქართულიҚазақшаLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംMaltiBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålOʻzbekcha/ўзбекчаPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСаха тылаසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaతెలుగుТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 10 February 2017, at 20:28.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.320","walltime":"0.422","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2341,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":103276,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3278,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":14,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  316.156      1 -total"," 26.83%   84.824      8 Template:Policy_shortcut"," 21.18%   66.973      8 Template:Bulleted_list"," 19.17%   60.601      1 Template:Pp-protected"," 11.53%   36.457      3 Template:Navbox"," 11.20%   35.403     12 Template:No_redirect"," 10.68%   33.759      1 Template:Policy","  9.76%   30.846      1 Template:Ombox","  8.78%   27.768      1 Template:Wikipedia_principles","  8.14%   25.734      1 Template:Navbox_with_columns"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.118","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3023258,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1200","timestamp":"20170210202749","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":60,"wgHostname":"mw1239"});});
