 







Help:Logging in

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:Logging in)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For information on logs of actions performed on Wikipedia, see Help:Log.



This information page describes the editing community's consensus on some aspect or aspects of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines.


Shortcut:

H:Login







Play media


This video tutorial describes the steps in creating a user account on the English Wikipedia


It is not necessary to log in before viewing or editing pages. It does provide additional features, and is generally recommended. If you do not wish to have your IP address known then you should log in. It is quick and simple to create a personal user account.



Contents


1 Logging in
2 Why log in?

2.1 Creating an account


3 How to log in

3.1 Login issues and problems
3.2 What if I forget the username?
3.3 What if I forget the password?


4 How to set preferences
5 Your user page and user talk page
6 Logging out
7 Editing while logged out
8 Keeping your account secure
9 See also



Logging in
Creating a user account means that you supply a username (your real name or a nickname) and a password. The system will reject a username that is already in use. A user account is created only once. You are then "logged in". The next time you log in, you supply your username again and demonstrate with the password that you are the same person. (Do not share your password with other people; this can allow them to misuse your account, which could lead to it being blocked.)
Edits you make are recorded under your username. If you are not logged in your edits are labelled in page history with your IP address.
User accounts created recently will be "unified" (that is, accessible from all Wikimedia projects). An older, non-unified account can be unified at Special:MergeAccount; unified users can use that page to check the status of their unified account. Preferences are currently set independently on each wiki. See m:Single login.
Why log in?
Main page: Wikipedia:Why create an account?
You don't have to log in to read Wikipedia. You don't even have to log in to edit most of Wikipedia (there are some exceptions).
However, it's still a good idea to log in, for these reasons:

Other users will be able to recognise you by your username when you make changes to pages. As a "name" an IP address is somewhat clumsy. Also, if you use computers at different locations (home, office, internet cafe, etc.) you have a different IP-address in each case; even in the same location, depending on the Internet connection, the IP-address may be different each time. Therefore, a username is better to maintain an identity.
You will have your own user page where you can write a bit about yourself, and a user talk page which you can use to communicate with other users.
You will also be able to make user subpages, as an add-on to your user page.
You will be able to mark an edit as minor, which avoids inconvenience for other users.
You will be able to keep track of changes to pages you are interested in using a watchlist.
If you choose to give an email address, other users will be able to contact you by email. This feature is anonymous — the user who emails you will not know your email address. You don't have to give your email address if you don't want to.

Check the privacy policy of the individual site you're visiting, if any (for example, Wikipedia's draft privacy policy)


You will be able to rename pages.
You will be able to set your own preferences, to change things such as:

The number of pages displayed in Recent changes
The fonts, colours and layout of the site, by using different skins.



Creating an account
To create an account, click on the Create account link at the top right of the page. You will need to provide a username and password, as well as answer a visual "captcha" test. Users with text, speech, or legacy browsers will be unable to create an account if they cannot view this captcha image. If you are unable to view captchas, you can request for an account to be created for you at Wikipedia:Request an account.
You may also be unable to create an account if it contains certain symbols (particularly the '@' symbol, as well as certain non-Latin characters) or words, or if it is too similar to that of an existing user. In that case, you will also have to request an account. If your IP address has account creation blocked, you can either request to be unblocked or request an account.
How to log in
"WP:COOKIES" redirects here. For the essay on notability, see Wikipedia:Run-of-the-mill. For WikiLove templates, see Wikipedia:WikiLove.


Shortcut:

WP:COOKIES


First, make sure that your browser accepts cookies. Some browsers can accept or reject cookies from individual sites; users of these should configure the browser to accept cookies from each wiki you plan to edit, such as wikipedia.org.
Click on the Log in link at the top right of the page. You will then be prompted to enter your username and password. If you have not logged in before, you will need to use the link provided to create an account.
You may give your email address if you like. Other users will be able to send email to the address, but they won't be able to find out what the address is.
If you click the box Remember me, you will not have to give your password again when you access MediaWiki wiki from the same computer. This feature will only work if your password was not generated by the MediaWiki software. So change your password please. The cookies containing username and password automatically expire 30 days after login (unless you log out manually).
Logging in and setting preferences were previously done separately on each wiki. It is now possible to use the same username, password and e-mail address across all Wikimedia wikis, without needing to register an account on each wiki. For more details, see m:Help:Unified login.
Login issues and problems
If you find yourself unable to log in, you may have one of the problems addressed in the following paragraphs. If none of them seem to apply, ask for help at the help desk.

The login link is obscured
If you cannot click on the login link, for instance because it is obscured by other text, use this direct link to the login page. It may be helpful to add the page to your browser's bookmarks/favourites. (This problem may occur on certain browsers when using a large minimum font size.)


My username and password are refused
Both usernames and passwords are case-sensitive on Wikipedia. Did you remember to type in the right capitalization? For example, if you registered under MyUserName, you will not be able to log in as Myusername (notice the subtle difference in spelling). The same goes for your password. The only exception is the first character of the username, which is capital by default.


I get logged out just after logging in
There are a few possible causes of this problem:


If you appear to have logged in, but as soon as you try to look at a page after 'Log in successful', you appear logged out again, it is very likely to be a cookie problem. See this brief tutorial on how to enable cookies for your browser.
Make sure your computer's date and time are set correctly; if they are not, cookies may expire before they are supposed to. Note that some firewall and ad-blocking software may interfere with the cookie that Wikipedia uses to keep a person logged in.
Some ISPs use transparent proxies which cause problems logging in. This happens most often with some satellite ISPs (particularly HughesNet/DirecWay/DirecPC).
Occasionally, a user may find him/herself "automatically" logged out between beginning an edit and saving it, or when switching between multiple wiki pages open in multiple windows or tabs. This can be a result of your browser's cookie, cache, or firewall settings, but sometimes, especially during heavy server load, the system can "glitch" and your login information will be lost, resulting in a logout.


Other causes
If you are absolutely sure that the login information you have entered is correct, then someone else may have compromised your account. In this case, your account may not be recoverable unless you can prove that the account is yours. In rare cases, your account may have been renamed or usurped, especially if it has few or no edits. You can see if your account has been renamed by viewing the user rename log and search for your username in the "Title" field.


I get a message that my IP address has been autoblocked
Follow the instructions listed on screen on how to request an unblock or send an email to the unblock-en-i mailing list.

What if I forget the username?
If you have forgotten your username, these steps may help you recover it:

Depending on your browser settings, you may find that the log in page redisplays the last username that was used on that computer.
If you have received any emails from Wikipedia, these will include the username.
If you can remember the names of any of Wikipedia pages that you edited while logged in, the username will be listed as part of the page history of those pages.
If you can remember the first part of the name, this search page may help you remember the rest of it.
If you previously entered an e-mail address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that e-mail account, then you can go to the login screen and click 'Reset your password'. Enter that email address on the next screen (Special:PasswordReset), and the system will send an email containing, among other things, a reminder of your user name.

If none of these steps are successful you will have to start again with a new account. Wikipedia administrators will not be able to help you work out your username from your email address or your IP address.
What if I forget the password?
Main page: Help:Reset password
If you have forgotten your password, these steps may help you recover it:

If you previously entered an e-mail address when signing up for the account or in your Preferences, and you still have access to that e-mail account, then you can enter your username on the login screen and click 'Reset your password'. Enter your user name on the next screen (Special:PasswordReset), and the system will send a temporary password to your saved e-mail address that will allow you to retrieve your account. You can change the password after you log in.
(Rare) If you have previously asked a Wikipedia tool such as AutoWikiBrowser to remember your password, and you still have access to the machine where the password is saved, then it may be possible to recover the saved password. Post at the tool's talk page for advice. Do not post the encrypted password.
(Rare) If you have a long-established account and have previously set up a "committed identity", and you still have the "secret string" (see Template:User committed identity for details), then it may be possible to recover the account. Post at the Administrators' noticeboard for advice. Do not post the secret string.

Otherwise you will have to create a new account under a different username. After doing this, if a user page and user talk page were created for the old account, it is advisable to make them redirect to the equivalent pages for the new account. (To carry the content and history of these pages over to the new location, you can use the "move" function—contact an administrator if assistance is needed.)
How to set preferences
Click on the My preferences link at the top right of the page for various options, including:

Changing your password.
Changing the skin, which changes the way that the web pages look.

See Help:Preferences.
Your user page and user talk page
As a logged in user, you will be able to create your own user page and user talk page. When you are logged in, you will see your username displayed at the top right of the page. Click on this to get to your user page, which you can edit in the same way as any other wiki page.
Most users write a little bit about themselves and their interests on their user page.
You also have a User talk page. You can access this by clicking on the Talk link next to your username at the top right of the page. Other people may write messages in your user talk page by editing it, and you can respond. See Help:Talk page for more.
Logging out
You can log out any time by clicking on the Log out link at the top right of the page. And after it, you will be using an IP to read Wikipedia. To prevent the browser from remembering your username and suggesting it to the next user of the computer, remember to delete the Wikipedia cookies in your browser's privacy settings. Especially if you are using a public computer, you may want to delete all of the browser's recent history (Ctrl+⇧ Shift+Del in Firefox).
In the mobile version, click the menu icon at the top left and then the logout button to the right of your username.
Editing while logged out

Shortcuts:

WP:LOGGEDOUT
WP:LOUT


Occasionally an established editor will edit while logged out. While not usually an egregious issue, there can be some concerns about attribution and privacy.

If you made an edit without logging in, you cannot go back and directly tie that edit to your account. If your desire to account for the edit overrides your desire for anonymity, you can log in, make a dummy edit, and add a note in the edit summary about the previous edit.


If you make a comment on a talk page without logging in, then your signature will include your IP address. You can log in and edit the comment by replacing the signature; be aware that the WikiScanner tool will retrieve these actions from the database and record them at the Poor Man's Checkuser,[dead link] thus connecting your username and IP address.


If you feel that the connection between the IP address and your username is an issue, then you can request that the edit be removed; see Wikipedia:Oversight#Policy and Wikipedia:Requests for oversight.

In Firefox (with the Greasemonkey add-on) or in Chrome, you can install a simple script that prevents editing while logged out on all Wikimedia Foundation sites. Once the script is installed and you click on Edit while logged out, it pops up a notice that you are not logged in and does not proceed. Note that it does not yet prevent editing by clicking on red links or by direct links to edit pages.
Keeping your account secure
See also: Wikipedia:Security
Users, especially administrators, should keep their accounts secure. If someone accesses your account and causes malicious damage, your reputation could be in trouble! Below are some tips on keeping your account secure:

Never give your Wikipedia password to anyone, not even users claiming to be sysop and staff!
Only enter your password on a Wikimedia site. Beware of fake sites. The domain name should end with wikipedia.org or wikimedia.org.
Keep your computer up-to-date with the latest anti-virus and anti-spyware software.
Your password should be easy to remember, but hard to guess.
If you decide to log on using a public computer, remember to log out when done.
Be careful when running user scripts. Some scripts can be programmed to steal cookies and thus compromise accounts.
Consider committing to your identity by adding a cryptographic hash to your user page to prove that you are really the person behind your username.

See also


Help portal



Wikipedia:Unified login







v
t
e


Wikipedia help pages










Visit the Teahouse if you are a new editor looking for interactive help, or the Help desk for an interactive Q & A forum.
Or ask for help on your talk page




Noticeboards (?)
FAQs (?)
Reference desks (?)
The Missing Manual (?)
Directories (?)








About Wikipedia



Administration
Principles (Wikipedia in brief)
Policies and guidelines
What Wikipedia is not
Disclaimer (parental advice)
Making requests

where to ask questions
contact Wikipedia directly


Who writes Wikipedia?
Why create an account?








Help for readers



FAQ
Books
Copyright
Glossary
Mobile access
Navigation
Other languages
Searching
Students
Viewing media








Contributing
to Wikipedia



A plain and simple overview
A primer for newcomers
Asking for help
Advice for young editors
Avoiding common mistakes
Etiquette (community expectations)
Learning the ropes
Instructional material
Simplified Manual of Style
Simplified rule-set

"Ignore all rules"
"The rules are principles"


Style-tips
Tip of the day
Task Center
Your first article (article wizard)
Vandalism








Getting started



Wikipedia intro
Wikipedia tutorial
The Wikipedia Adventure
Manual of Style intro
Graphics tutorials
Picture tutorial (Uploading intro)
IRC (live chat) tutorial
Navigating intro
Policies intro
Referencing intro
Tables intro
Talk pages intro
VisualEditor user guide








Dos and don'ts



Accessibility
Bio's
Categorization
Disambiguation
Images
Links
Lists
References
Tables
Talks








How-to pages and
information pages



Appealing blocks
Article deletion
Categories
Citations / references

Referencing for beginners
Citation Style 1
Cite errors
References and page numbers


Convert
Diff
Editing

toolbar
edit conflict


Email confirmation
Find sources
Files
Footnotes
Image deletion
Infoboxes
Linking (link color)
Logging in
Merging
Namespaces
Page name
Redirect
Renaming pages
Passwords
Reverting
Talk pages (archiving)
URL
User contributions
User page design center








Coding wiki markup



Wiki markup (cheatsheet)
Barcharts
Calculations
Characters
Citation templates
Columns
Hidden text
HTML
Lists
Magic words (introduction)
Music symbols
Sections
Sounds
Tables (introduction)
Templates

documentation
messages

cleanup messages




Transclusion
Visual files
Wiki tools








Directories



Abbreviations
Departments
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary
Guidelines
Help menu
Manual of Style
Policies
Shortcuts
Tips










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to











v
t
e


Wikipedia technical help







Get personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.






General technical
help



Multilingual support
Special Characters

Entering


Browser notes

Troubleshooting
Bypass cache


Mobile access
Printing
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing

Edit toolbar
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Reverting


VisualEditor

User guide


User access levels
Software notices

Editnotice


IRC

Tutorial


Create a page
Page history
Page information
Page name

Introduction










Special page related



Special page help
Searching

Advanced search
Linksearch


Logging in

Reset passwords


Notifications/Echo

FAQ


Moving a page

Fixing cut-and-paste moves


Watching pages
User contributions
Emailing users
Random pages
Logs
What links here
Related changes
Recent changes
Pending changes
Page Curation
Page import
Edit filter
Tags








Wiki markup



Wiki markup main page

Cheatsheet


Colours use
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words

For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function


Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables

Introduction
Basics
Conditional tables
Sorting
Collapsing
Advanced table formatting










Links and diffs



URLs
Links
Permanent link
Interwikimedia links
Interlanguage links
Link color
Pipe trick
Colon trick
Magic links
Diffs

Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide










Media files: images,
videos and sounds



Media help
Options to hide an image
Uploading images

Introduction


Files

Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons


Visual file markup
Images

Preparing images for upload
Picture tutorial
Extended image syntax


Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials

Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality


Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
SVG help








Other graphics



Family trees
Graphs and charts

How to create
To scale charts
Barcharts


Math formula

Math symbols
Rendering math
LaTeX symbols


Musical scores

Musical symbols


Timeline

EasyTimeline syntax


WikiHiero syntax








Templates
and Lua modules



Templates
Template messages
Citation templates
Transclusion

Labeled section


Substitution
Advanced template coding
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Template documentation
Purge
Lua help
Lua project

To do
Resources


Guide to Scribbling








Data structure



Namespaces
Main/Article
Talk namespaces

Archiving


User

User page design


Project/Wikipedia
File

File pages


MediaWiki

Bug reports and feature requests
System message


Template
Help
Category
Portal
Book
Draft
Education Program
TimedText
Module/Lua
Topic/Flow
Special
Media








HTML and CSS



HTML in wikitext
Markup validation
Span tags
Cascading Style Sheets
Catalogue of CSS classes
Useful styles
Classes used in microformats
Ambox classes
Common.js and common.css








Customisation and tools



Preferences
Skins
Customizing watchlists

Hide pages


Gadgets
Beta Features
User scripts

Guide
Techniques


IRC Scripts
User styles
Tools

Navigation shortcuts
Browser tools
Alternative browsing
Editing tools
Optimum tool set


Cleaning up vandalism tools
Citation tools
Wikimedia Labs








Automating editing



Bots

Creating


Twinkle
FurMe
NPWatcher
HotCat
WPCleaner
igloo
AutoWikiBrowser
Navigation popups
STiki
AfC helper script
Huggle








Relevant navigation



Help pages

Administrators


Templates
Referencing

Citation metadata


Accessibility
Bots
User scripts










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to











v
t
e


Wikipedia accounts and governance






Unregistered (IP) users



Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper








Registered users



New account
Logging in

Reset passwords


Username policy

Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention


Unified login or SUL
Alternate account








Account security



Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication

Simple 2FA
2FA for AWB


Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts








Blocks, global locks,
bans, sanctions



Blocking policy

FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock


Appealing a block

Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System


Blocking IP addresses

Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies


Global locks
Banning policy

ArbCom appeals


Sanctions

Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay


Long-term abuse
Standard offer








Related to accounts



Sock puppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak

Enforcer


Retiring

Courtesy vanishing


Clean start

Quiet return










User groups
and global user groups



Requests for permissions

Admin instructions
Admin guide


Account creator

PERM


Autopatrolled

PERM


AutoWikiBrowser

PERM


Confirmed

PERM


Extended confirmed

PERM


File mover

PERM


Mass message sender

PERM


New page reviewer

PERM


Page mover

PERM


Pending changes reviewer

PERM


Rollback

PERM


Template editor

PERM


IP-block-exempt

Requests


Courses access

Requests


Bot accounts

Requests


Global rights policy

OTRS Volunteer Response Team










Advanced user groups



Administrators

RfA


Bureaucrats

RfB


Edit filter manager

Requests


CheckUser and Oversight

Requests










Committees and related



Arbitration Committee
Mediation Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks








Governance



Administration

FAQ


Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation

Meta-Wiki


Leadership opportunities
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Unbundling administrators' powers
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Logging_in&oldid=763123407"					
Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia basic informationWikipedia featuresWikipedia interface helpHidden categories: Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pagesWikipedia semi-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Help page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


MediaWikiMeta-WikiWikinewsWikiquoteWikisourceWikiversityWikivoyage 



Languages


العربيةAragonésAzərbaycancaবাংলাБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎БългарскиCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFøroysktGalego客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어हिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoBasa JawaქართულიLigureMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംMaltiमराठीBahasa MelayuMirandésNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆپښتوភាសាខ្មែរPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSeelterskSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиBasa SundaTagalogతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаVènetoייִדישYorùbá粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 1 February 2017, at 12:52.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.212","walltime":"0.300","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1373,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":130813,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":2544,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":11,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  190.851      1 -total"," 22.74%   43.399      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 18.68%   35.655      3 Template:Navbox"," 15.65%   29.860      1 Template:Information_page"," 14.85%   28.349      1 Template:Help_navigation"," 12.34%   23.542      1 Template:Ombox"," 10.54%   20.121      1 Template:Pp-move-indef","  5.50%   10.498      1 Template:Key_press","  4.53%    8.653      1 Template:Wikipedia_technical_help","  4.41%    8.415      1 Template:Dead_link"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.071","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3255547,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1268","timestamp":"20170206032647","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":86,"wgHostname":"mw1214"});});
