 







Wikipedia:User access levels

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:Autoconfirmed)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"WP:RIGHTS" redirects here. To request user rights, see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions or Wikipedia:Requests for adminship.
"WP:CC" redirects here. For information about Creative Commons image copyright tags, see Wikipedia:File copyright tags.



This information page describes the editing community's consensus on some aspect or aspects of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines.


Shortcut:

WP:UAL








To find out what permissions your account has, go to Special:Preferences. Your permissions are listed in the user profile tab under "Member of groups".



User access levels

New users




Unregistered (not logged in) users
New Users
Autoconfirmed and confirmed users
Extended confirmed users




Administrators and bureaucrats




Administrators
Bureaucrats




Other flags giving access to specialized functions




Pending changes reviewer
Rollback
Autopatrolled
New page reviewer
File mover
Page mover
Account creator
Template editor
Ipblock-exempt
Edit Filter managers
Oversight
CheckUser

Course coordinator, instructor, online
and campus volunteer

Mass message sender




Other flagged accounts




Bots
Founder
Researcher
Importers and Transwiki




Global user groups




WP:Staff
Stewards
Sysadmins
Ombudsmen
OTRS-member
Global bots
Global rollbackers
Global sysops
Global interface editors






For all user permissions see this table.
For other global user groups see Wikipedia:Global rights policy and meta:User groups.





v
t
e





The user access level of an editor affects their ability to perform certain actions on Wikipedia; it depends on which rights (also called permissions, user groups, bits or flags) are assigned to accounts. This is determined by whether the editor is logged into an account, and whether the account has a sufficient age and number of edits for certain automatic rights, and what additional rights have been assigned manually to the account.
Everyone is able to read Wikipedia. Unless they are blocked, they may freely edit most pages without the need to be logged in. Being logged in gives users a number of advantages, such as the ability to create new pages and the ability to track one's contributions. Accounts more than a certain number of days old with more than a certain number of edits automatically become autoconfirmed. Further access levels need to be assigned manually by a user with the appropriate authority. An editor with more experience and good standing can attempt to become an administrator (sysop), which provides a large number of advanced permissions. A number of other flags for specialized tasks are also available.



Contents


1 Overview
2 User groups

2.1 Unregistered (IP or not logged in) users
2.2 Registered (new) users
2.3 Autoconfirmed and confirmed users

2.3.1 Extended confirmed users


2.4 Administrators and bureaucrats

2.4.1 Administrators (admins or sysops)
2.4.2 Bureaucrats


2.5 Other flags giving access to specialized functions

2.5.1 Pending changes reviewer
2.5.2 Rollback
2.5.3 Autopatrolled
2.5.4 New page reviewer (patroller)
2.5.5 File mover
2.5.6 Page mover
2.5.7 Account creator
2.5.8 Template editor
2.5.9 Ipblock-exempt
2.5.10 Edit Filter managers
2.5.11 Oversight
2.5.12 CheckUser
2.5.13 Course coordinator, instructor, online and campus volunteer
2.5.14 Mass message sender


2.6 Other flagged accounts

2.6.1 Bots
2.6.2 Founder
2.6.3 Researcher
2.6.4 Importers and transwiki importers


2.7 Indefinitely blocked users


3 Global rights

3.1 Stewards
3.2 Other global user groups


4 Table

4.1 User access level changes


5 Notes
6 See also



Overview
Further information: Wikipedia:Administration § Human and legal administration
All visitors to the site, including unregistered users, are part of the '*' group, and all logged-in registered users are also part of the 'user' group. Users are automatically promoted into the autoconfirmed/confirmed users pseudo-group of established users when their account is more than four days old and has ten edits, and the 'extended confirmed' user group later on.
Other flags are only given upon request; some, such as 'rollbacker' or 'bot', are granted unilaterally if the user demonstrates a need for them (see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions and Wikipedia:Bots/Requests for approval). Others, such as 'sysop' and 'bureaucrat', are given only after community discussion and consensus at Wikipedia:Requests for adminship. Users are only made members of groups such as 'oversight' and 'checkuser' with the approval of the Arbitration Committee and after confirming their identity with the Wikimedia Foundation.
User groups have one or more rights assigned to them; for example the ipblock-exempt (IP block exemptions) group have the 'ipblock-exempt' and 'torunblocked' rights. All members of a particular user group will have access to these rights. The individual rights that are assigned to user groups are listed at Special:ListGroupRights. Terms like rights, permissions, bits and flags can refer to both user groups and the individual rights assigned to them.
Permissions requested at Requests for permissions only have local rights on the English Wikipedia wiki. But members of global user groups have rights across all Wikimedia Foundation wikis, although that access can sometimes be restricted by local wiki policies. Users registered at Wikimedia wikis also have registered user rights to other Wikimedia wikis if their account is a SUL or unified login account. For SUL accounts, both local and global user group membership across Wikimedia wikis can be viewed at Special:CentralAuth.
User groups
The system-generated technical permissions are listed at Special:ListGroupRights.

Unregistered (IP or not logged in) users

Shortcut:

WP:IP


"WP:IP" redirects here. For intellectual property, see Wikipedia:Copyrights.
Contributors who are not logged in are identified by their IP address rather than a user name, whether or not they have already registered an account. They may read all Wikipedia pages (except restricted special pages), and edit pages that are not protected (including Pending changes protected/move-protected articles). They may create talk pages in any talk namespace but need to ask for help to create pages in some parts of the wiki. They cannot upload files or images. They must answer a CAPTCHA if they wish to make an edit which involves the addition of one or more external links, and click a confirm link to purge pages. All users may also query the site API in 500-record batches.
Edit screens of unregistered users are headed by a banner that reads:

You are not logged in. Your IP address will be publicly visible if you make any edits. If you log in or create an account, your edits will be attributed to a user name, among other benefits.

Registered (new) users

Shortcut:

WP:REGISTERED


See also: Wikipedia:Why create an account?
Users who edit through an account they have registered may immediately create pages in any namespace (except the MediaWiki namespace, and limited to eight per minute) and may also e-mail other users if they activate an email address in their user preferences. All logged-in users may mark edits as minor. They may purge pages without a confirmation step, but are still required to answer a CAPTCHA when adding external links. They may save books to their userspace but not the Books namespace. They may also customize their Wikimedia interface and its options as they wish, via Special:Preferences or by adding personal CSS or JavaScript rules to their vector.css or vector.js files.

Autoconfirmed and confirmed users

Shortcuts:

WP:AUTOCONFIRM
WP:AUTOC
WP:CONFIRM


Several actions on the English Wikipedia are restricted to user accounts which were created a certain number of days ago and which have made a certain number of edits. Users who meet these requirements are considered part of the pseudo-group 'autoconfirmed'. The conditions for autoconfirmed status are checked every time a user attempts to perform a restricted action; if they are met, permission is granted automatically by the software. Although the precise requirements for autoconfirmed status vary according to circumstances, most English Wikipedia user accounts that are more than four days old and have made at least 10 edits are considered autoconfirmed. However, users with IPBE editing through the Tor network are subjected to stricter autoconfirmed thresholds: 90 days and 100 edits.
Autoconfirmed or confirmed status is required to move pages, edit semi-protected pages, and upload files or upload a new version of an existing file. Autoconfirmed users are no longer required to enter a CAPTCHA for most events and they may save books to the Books namespace. In addition, the Edit filter has a number of warning settings that only affect editors who are not autoconfirmed.
In some situations, it is necessary for accounts to be exempted from the customary confirmation period. The 'confirmed' group contains the same rights as the 'autoconfirmed' pseudo-group, but can be granted by administrators as necessary. It is redundant to grant the right to an account that is already autoconfirmed, since the right provides the same abilities. To request this permission, see Wikipedia:Requests for permissions/Confirmed. See Special:ListUsers/confirmed for a list of the 458 confirmed users.
As of 1 August 2014[update], there were approximately 1.4 million autoconfirmed users on English Wikipedia, of which the vast majority are inactive. See Special:ActiveUsers for recently active users.
Before 16 November 2016, autoconfirmed users could also mark new pages as patrolled. Now, this requires the new page reviewer right.
Extended confirmed users

Shortcuts:

WP:EXTENDEDCONFIRMED
WP:XCON


The 'extendedconfirmed' user access level is automatically granted to registered editors who make an edit after having 30 days tenure and at least 500 edits. This user access right allows editors to edit pages with extended confirmed protection. This access is included in the 'bot' and 'sysop' (Administrator) user groups.
See Special:ListUsers/extendedconfirmed for a list of the 31998 extended confirmed users.
Administrators and bureaucrats

Administrators (admins or sysops)
See also: Wikipedia:Administrators
Administrator rights are granted by the community at Requests for Adminship (RfA). The RfA process involves considerable discussion and examination of the candidate's activities as an editor. Users who are members of this user group have access to a number of tools to allow them to carry out certain functions on the wiki. The tools cover processes such as page deletion, page protection, blocking and unblocking, and access to modify fully protected pages and the Mediawiki interface. Administrators also have the ability to grant and remove account creator, rollback, ipblock-exempt, confirmed user, file mover, page mover, pending changes reviewer, autopatrolled, template editor and edit filter manager rights to other users, and to their own alternate accounts. By convention, administrators also normally take responsibility for judging the outcome of certain discussions requiring these technical controls (such as deletions). Administrators are not granted special editorial control over article content.
See Special:ListUsers/sysop for a list of the 1273 administrators, also known as "sysops" (system operators). The two terms are used interchangeably.

Bureaucrats

Shortcuts:

WP:Bureaucrat rights
Help:Bureaucrat rights


See also: Wikipedia:Bureaucrats
Bureaucrat rights are granted by the community at Requests for Bureaucratship (RfB) to exceptionally trusted users who are allowed to perform certain actions on other users' accounts.
Bureaucrats have extended access to Special:UserRights, enabling them to add users to the 'bureaucrat' group (but not remove them),[1] and both add users to and remove users from the 'administrator'[2] and 'bot' user groups. Bureaucrats who are also Global renamers can use meta:Special:GlobalRenameUser to rename users.
See Special:ListUsers/bureaucrat for a list of the 22 bureaucrats.
Other flags giving access to specialized functions
Pending changes reviewer

See also: Wikipedia:Reviewing pending changes
Members of this group can review other users' edits to articles placed under pending changes protection. This right is automatically assigned to administrators. Prior to September 2014, this right was known as "reviewer".
See Special:ListUsers/reviewer for a list of the 6727 reviewers.

Rollback
See also: Wikipedia:Rollback
Users who are given the rollback flag ('rollbacker' user group) may revert consecutive revisions of an editor using the rollback feature. This right is automatically assigned to administrators.
See Special:ListUsers/rollbacker for a list of the 5675 rollbackers.

Autopatrolled

See also: Wikipedia:Autopatrolled
Members of this group have 'autopatrol', which allows them to have their pages automatically patrolled on the New Pages list. This right is automatically assigned to administrators. Prior to June 2010, this right was known as "autoreviewer".
See Special:ListUsers/autoreviewer for a list of the 3588 autopatrolled users.

New page reviewer (patroller)
See also: Wikipedia:New pages patrol/Reviewers
Members of this group have 'patrol', which allows them to mark pages created by others as patrolled or reviewed. This right is automatically assigned to administrators.
See Special:ListUsers/patroller for a list of the 345 new page reviewers.

File mover
See also: Wikipedia:File mover
The file mover user right is intended to allow users experienced in working with files to rename them, subject to policy, with the ease that autoconfirmed users already enjoy when renaming Wikipedia articles. This right is automatically assigned to administrators.
See Special:ListUsers/filemover for a list of the 395 additional filemovers.

Page mover
See also: Wikipedia:Page mover
The page mover user right ('extendedmover' user group) is intended to allow users who have demonstrated a good understanding of the Wikipedia page naming system to rename pages and subpages without leaving redirects, subject to policy. This right is automatically assigned to administrators.
See Special:ListUsers/extendedmover for a list of the 109 page movers.

Account creator 

Shortcut:

WP:ACCOUNTCREATOR


See also: Wikipedia:Account creator
Users who are given the accountcreator flag ('accountcreator' user group) are not affected by the 6 account creation limit per day per IP, and can create accounts for other users without restriction. Users in this group can also override the anti-spoof checks on account creation. This right is automatically assigned to administrators and bureaucrats.[3] Additionally, account creators are able to create accounts with names that are otherwise blocked by the title blacklist.
See Special:ListUsers/accountcreator for a list of the 132 additional account creators.

Template editor
See also: Wikipedia:Template editor
Members of this group are allowed to edit pages protected with template protection as well as create and edit editnotices. Template protection is only applied to pages in the template and module namespaces. It is intended to allow experienced template and module coders to make changes without having to request that an administrator make the edits for them.
See Special:ListUsers/templateeditor for a list of the 149 template editors.

Ipblock-exempt
See also: Wikipedia:IP block exemption
Users who are given the ipblock-exempt flag ('ipblock-exempt' user group) are not affected by autoblocks and blocks of IP addresses and ranges that aren't made with the "anonymous users only" setting. This right is automatically assigned to administrators and bots, however the flag must be added separately to enable editing from IP addresses affected by Tor blocks.
See Special:ListUsers/ipblock-exempt for a list of the 144 affected users.

Edit Filter managers

Shortcut:

WP:AFE


See also: Wikipedia:Edit filter
Members of this group can create, modify and delete edit filters. This flag is given and removed by administrators. It is not assigned to administrators by default.
See Special:ListUsers/abusefilter for a list of the 167 filter editors. All users can check their log entries on the Special:AbuseFilter pages.

Oversight
See also: Wikipedia:Oversight
Users who are given the oversight flag ('oversight' user group) have access to additional functions on the deletion and block screens through which they can hide revisions of pages from all other users, and Special:Log/suppress, where they can view a log of such actions and the content of the hidden revisions. This right is only granted to exceedingly few users who are at least 18 years old and have signed the Wikimedia Foundation's confidentiality agreement for nonpublic information. Oversighters are also required to have passed an "RFA or RFA-identical process".[4]
See Special:ListUsers/oversight for a list of the 51 Oversighters.

CheckUser
See also: Wikipedia:CheckUser and meta:CheckUser policy
Users who are given the checkuser flag ('checkuser' user group) have access to Special:CheckUser. They are able to view a list of all IP addresses used by a user account to edit the English Wikipedia, a list of all edits made by an IP, or all user accounts that have used an IP address. They may also view a log of such requests. This right is only granted to exceedingly few users who are at least 18 years old and have signed the Wikimedia Foundation's confidentiality agreement for nonpublic information. As Checkusers have access to deleted revisions, they are also required to have passed an "RFA or RFA-identical process".[4]
See Special:ListUsers/checkuser for a list of the 40 CheckUsers.
Course coordinator, instructor, online and campus volunteer

Shortcuts:

WP:Course coordinators
WP:Course instructors
WP:Course online volunteers
WP:Course campus volunteers


Main page: Wikipedia:Course pages
Members of these user groups (in addition to administrators) can manage course pages in the "Education Program:" namespace. Course coordinator rights (as well as the instructor, online volunteer and campus volunteer rights) are assigned by administrators. Course coordinators may assign "course online volunteer", "course campus volunteer", and "course instructor" rights to other users. Online and campus volunteers, respectively, can designate themselves as supporters for individual courses (whom students can turn to for help, online or in person). They do this by going to the course page and using the software interface to associate their account with the course.
See Special:ListUsers/epcampus, Special:ListUsers/epcoordinator, Special:ListUsers/epinstructor and Special:ListUsers/eponline for lists of users within these groups.
Mass message sender
See also: Wikipedia:Mass message senders
Members of this group may send messages to multiple users at once. See Special:ListUsers/massmessage-sender for a list of the 47 mass message senders.
Other flagged accounts

Bots
See also: Wikipedia:Bot policy
Accounts used by approved bots to make pre-approved edits can be flagged as such. Bot accounts are automated or semi-automated, the nature of their edits is well defined, and they will be quickly blocked if their actions vary from their given tasks, so they require less scrutiny than human edits.
For this reason, contributions from accounts with the bot flag ('bot' user group) are not displayed in recent changes or watchlists to users who have opted to hide bot edits. Minor edits made by bot accounts to user talk pages do not trigger the "you have new messages" banner. Bot accounts can query the API in batches of 5,000 rather than 500.
See Special:ListUsers/bot for a list of the 314 bots.

Founder

Shortcut:

Wikipedia:Founder


The founder group was created on the English Wikipedia by developer Tim Starling, without community input, as a unique group for Jimmy Wales in 2001.[5] The group gives Wales full access to user rights. As 'local founder actions' are usually of great interest to the local community, and are only relevant to the English Wikipedia, the local 'founder' right also has the benefit of allowing Wales' actions to be visible in the English Wikipedia rights log. Jimbo Wales is also a member of the founder global group, which has view-only rights across the Wikimedia network.
Researcher

Shortcut:

WP:RESEARCHER


The 'researcher' group was created in April 2010 to allow individuals explicitly approved by the Wikimedia Foundation to perform a title search for deleted pages and view deleted history entries but not to view the actual revisions of deleted pages.[6] Policies governing the access level are under development by the Wikimedia Foundation Research Committee (RCom) and being discussed here at Wikipedia talk:FAQ/Research.
See Special:ListUsers/researcher (for the list of 10 current researchers) and meta:Research:Special API permissions/Log for further details.

Importers and transwiki importers

Shortcut:

WP:Importers


'Importers' and 'transwiki importers' are groups which give permissions on Special:Import. This interface allows users to copy pages and page histories from other Wikimedia wikis. For instance, the right allows a user to copy an article written in English on another-language wiki, while preserving full edit history if they select the appropriate option. This 'import' right is available to the administrators, importers, and transwiki importers user groups.
Although MediaWiki software provides the ability to import articles directly from XML (which may come from any wiki site), this requires a special user right 'importupload', which is restricted to Stewards and occasionally one or two other highly trusted users in the 'importers' group.
See Special:ListUsers/import for the 2[7] remaining importers. There are currently no users in the transwiki importers group.[8] All users can use Special:Export. See also the import log, Transwiki log, Help:Import and WP:RFPI.
Indefinitely blocked users

Shortcut:

WP:INDEFRIGHTS


In general, rights of editors blocked indefinitely should be left as is. Rights specifically related to the reason for blocking may be removed at the discretion of the blocking or unblocking administrators.[9]
Global rights
Global rights have effects on all public Wikimedia wikis, but their use may be restricted by local policy, see Wikipedia:Global rights policy. For an automatically generated list of global groups with all their permissions, see Special:GlobalGroupPermissions. For a list of users along with their global groups, see Special:GlobalUsers.

Stewards
See also: meta:Steward
Stewardship is an elected role, and stewards are appointed globally across all public Wikimedia wikis.
Users who are members of the 'steward' user group may grant and revoke any permission to or from any user on any wiki operated by the Wikimedia Foundation which allows open account creation. This group is set on MetaWiki, and may use meta:Special:Userrights to set permissions on any Wikimedia wiki; they may add or remove any user from any group configured on metawiki. Stewards generally act only when there is no user on a particular wiki that can make the necessary change. This includes granting of the 'administrator' or 'bureaucrat' access levels on wikis which do not have any local bureaucrats, and removing such flags if the user resigns or the account is acting maliciously. Stewards are also responsible for granting and revoking access levels such as 'oversight' and 'checkuser', as no other group is capable of making such changes except staff/sysadmins.
Stewards can also act as checkusers, oversighters, bureaucrats or administrators on wikis which do not have active local members of those groups. For example, if a wiki has a passing need for an edit to be oversighted, a steward can add themselves to the 'oversight' user group on that wiki, perform the necessary function, and then remove themselves from the 'oversight' group using their steward rights.
Most steward actions are logged at meta:Special:Log/rights or meta:Special:Log/gblrights (some go to meta:Stewards/Additional log for global changes). See Special:GlobalUsers/steward or meta:Special:ListUsers/steward for a list of users in this group.
Other global user groups
Main pages: Wikipedia:Global rights policy and meta:User groups
Other global groups include WMF staff; sysadmins (system administrators); ombudsmen; OTRS-members (Volunteer Response Team); global bots; global rollbackers; global sysops (not enabled on English Wikipedia); interface editors. See Global rights policy and meta:User groups for information on these, as well as a full list.
Table

As a function of the Requests for adminship and Requests for Bureaucratship processes, all bureaucrats on the English Wikipedia are also administrators, and so have all the permissions of the 'sysop' user group in addition to those rights from the 'bureaucrat' group. However this is not a requirement of the MediaWiki software; it is technically possible for a user to be a bureaucrat without also being an admin.
Deprecated permissions are either no longer assigned to any group, or the group to which they are assigned is no longer populated.
Special:ListGroupRights is an automatically generated list of granted user group rights. The below table is manually updated, and also includes global groups with local access.



Granted
Inherited
Denied
Revoked
Depends
Limited


 
 
 
 
 
 







v
t
e



Permission
 
Allows user(s) to…
Blocked users
Unregistered
users
Registered accounts
Autoconfirmed
and Confirmed
Bots
Administrators
Bureaucrats
other groups


abusefilter-log
View the abuse log
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


abusefilter-log-detail
View detailed abuse log entries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


abusefilter-modify
Modify abuse filters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edit filter manager


abusefilter-view
View abuse filters
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


abusefilter-revert
Revert all changes by a given abuse filter
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


apihighlimits
Request API queries in batches of 5,000, rather than 500
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Researchers
 


autoconfirmed
Edit semi-protected pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


autopatrol
Automatically mark all edits made by the user as patrolled
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Autopatrolled, Global rollbacker
 


bigdelete
Delete pages with over 5,000 revisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stewards


block
Block an IP address, user name, or range of IPs, from editing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


bot
Edit without their edits showing up in recent changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


checkuser
See all IP addresses used by a registered user or to show all edits from a given IP address
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CheckUser, Ombudsman


collectionsaveascommunitypage
Save books as community page in the book namespace
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


collectionsaveasuserpage
Save books as user subpage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


createaccount
Create a new user account for themselves or another user
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Account creator
 


createpage
Create a new page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


createtalk
Create a new talk page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


delete
Delete a page with ≤ 5,000 revisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


deletedhistory
View the history of a deleted page or a user's deleted contributions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Researchers
 


deletedtext
View the text of deleted revisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ombudsman


deleterevision
Access RevisionDelete tool for viewing, deleting, restoring the text, edit summary, and/or username of a revision
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


edit
Edit any page which is not protected
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


editinterface
Edit the MediaWiki namespace to affect the interface
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
interface editor


edittalk
Edit their own talk page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


ep-addstudent
Enroll users as student
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Education Program staff


ep-becampus
Add or remove yourself as campus ambassador from terms
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course campus volunteers, Course coordinators


ep-beinstructor
Add or remove yourself as instructor from courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators, Course instructors


ep-beonline
Add or remove yourself as online ambassador from terms
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators, Course online volunteers


ep-bereviewer
Add or remove yourself as reviewer from articles
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


ep-bulkdelcourses
Bulk delete courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators


ep-bulkdelorgs
Bulk delete institutions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


ep-campus
Add or remove campus ambassadors to courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators


ep-course
Manage Education Program courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course campus volunteers, Course coordinators, Course instructors, Course online volunteers


ep-enroll
Enroll in Education Program courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


ep-instructor
Add or remove instructors to courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators


ep-online
Add or remove online ambassadors to courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators


ep-org
Manage Education Program institutions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course campus volunteers, Course coordinators, Course instructors, Course online volunteers


ep-remarticle
Dissasociate articles from students
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course campus volunteers, Course coordinators, Course instructors, Course online volunteers


ep-remreviewer
Remove reviewers from articles
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators


ep-remstudent
Remove students from courses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course coordinators, Course instructors


ep-token
See Education Program enrollment tokens
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Course campus volunteers, Course coordinators, Course instructors, Course online volunteers


editusercss
Edit other users' CSS files
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


edituserjs
Edit other users' JavaScript files
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


extendedconfirmed
Edit 30/500 protected pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Extended confirmed editors


import
Import pages from other wikis
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
importer and transwiki importers


importupload
Import pages from a locally stored XML file
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
importer


ipblockexempt
Be unaffected by blocks applied to the user's IP address or a range (CIDR) containing it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ipblock-exempt


markbotedits
Mark rollback as bot edits, to keep them out of recent changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
global rollbacker


minoredit
Make an edit marked as 'minor'
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Permission
Allows user(s) to...
Blocked users
Unregistered
users
Registered accounts
Autoconfirmed
and Confirmed
Bots
Administrators
Bureaucrats
other groups


move
Change the title of a page by moving it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


movefile
Change the title of a file by moving it
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
file movers


move-rootuserpages
Move root user pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


move-subpages
Move pages with their subpages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
page mover


nominornewtalk
Minor edits by this user to user talk pages do not trigger the "you have new messages" banner
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


noratelimit
Not be affected by rate limits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
account creator, global rollbacker


override-antispoof
Blocks the creation of accounts with mixed-script, confusing and similar usernames
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
account creator


oversight
View revisions that have been permanently hidden
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
oversight


patrol
State that they have checked a page that appeared in Special:Newpages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
New page reviewer


protect
Change protection levels, edit and move protected pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


purge
Purge a page by adding &action=purge to the URL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


read
Read pages
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


renameuser
Change the name of an existing account
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
global renamer, steward


reupload
Overwrite an existing unprotected file
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


reupload-own
Overwrite existing files uploaded by oneself
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


rollback
Use a special link to more easily revert a bad edit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
rollbacker, global rollbacker


sendemail
E-mail a user (using Special:EmailUser/username) who have associated an email address with themselves
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


skipcaptcha
Perform captcha triggering actions without having to go through the captcha
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


suppressredirect
Not create a redirect from the old name when moving a page
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
global rollbacker, page mover


suppressrevision
Permanently hide revisions from public view
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oversight


tboverride
Override the title blacklist
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
template editors


tboverride-account
Override the username blacklist
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
account creators


undelete
Undelete a previously deleted page or specific revisions from it, view deleted revisions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


unwatchedpages
View a list of pages which are not on anyone's watchlist
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


upload
Upload a media file
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


userrights
Change the user groups of another user
 
 
 
 
 
± rollbacker
± Ipblock-exempt
± accountcreator
± autopatrolled
± Edit Filter managers
± Confirmed
± Filemover
± Reviewer
± Template editor
± Page mover
± Mass message sender
± extendedconfirmed
- Ipblock-exempt
± accountcreator
± Filemover
± Reviewer
± administrator
± bot
± flow bot
+ bureaucrat
steward, founder
± any


writeapi
Use of the write API
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 




Permission
Allows user(s) to…
Blocked users
Unregistered
users
Registered accounts
Auto-confirmed
and Confirmed
Bots
Administrators
Bureaucrats
other groups




The userright proxyunbannable is assigned to administrators but has no effect since WMF wikis use mw:Extension:TorBlock instead of the default mediawiki proxy blocker. Administrators are not exempt from tor blocks, only users in the IP block exemptions usergroup are, due to the torunblocked userright.
IPs and new users are limited to 8 edits per minute. Autoconfirmed or confirmed users who are in no usergroup with the noratelimit userright are limited to 8 moves per minutes. Rollbackers in the same situation are limited to 100 rollbacks per minute.[10] Account creations are subject to an IP based limit, set at 6 for WMF wikis, but users with noratelimit are unaffected.

User access level changes

Key to Rights

Granted
Inherited
Denied


 
 
 



Key to Project

Local
Global
Restricted


 
 
 





Confirmed
Extended confirmed
Bot
Administrator
Bureaucrat
Pending changes reviewer
Rollbacker
Checkuser
Autopatrolled
Oversight
Import
Ipblock-Exempt
Edit Filter managers
Account Creator
Page mover
File mover
New page reviewer


give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take
give
take


Administrator




































Bureaucrat




































Steward







1




























Founder




































^1 Because bureaucrats were granted the ability to do this, stewards would refer most ordinary requests for removal of the sysop permission to them, but retain the right to remove the sysop permission when appropriate (such as emergencies or requests from the Arbitration Committee).
Notes


^ MediaWiki default settings are that the 'bureaucrats' group has the userrights flag (giving access to Special:UserRights) and can add or remove any flags. However this can be modified by mw:Manual:$wgAddGroups and mw:Manual:$wgRemoveGroups to restrict adding/removing flags to specified ones. Wikimedia's settings file uses these, and by default bureaucrats can only remove bot flags and add administrator, bureaucrat and bot flags. English Wikipedia, or 'enwiki', settings additionally permit adding accountcreator and removal of ipblock-exempt and accountcreator; which administrators can do anyway, and removal of sysop.
^ Since August 2011, per Bugzilla: 18390
^ "Project:Account creators". MediaWikiWiki. 2015. Retrieved 2015-02-01. DefaultSettings.php grants the noratelimit user right to bureaucrats and sysops. 
^ a b The Wikimedia Foundation has stated that an "RFA or RFA-identical process" is required for users to be granted access to deleted revisions.
^ Although there are two co-founders, Jimbo Wales is the only member of this group. - en.wikipedia.org (March 27, 2001). "Users - Wikipedia". Retrieved November 24, 2016. 
^ The group has access to the browsearchive and deletedhistory rights, as well apihighlimits (Wikimedia NOC)
^ As of 2016
^ As of 2016
^ See the RfC at Wikipedia talk:User access levels/Archive 2#Rights of indef blocked users.
^ The API query https://en.wikipedia.org/w/api.php?action=query&meta=userinfo&uiprop=ratelimits%7Cgroups can be used to check those values.


See also



This page is referenced from the glossary under Autoconfirmed.




Wikipedia:Editing restrictions: a list of users with editing restrictions that have been imposed by the Arbitration Committee
Manual:User rights
Meta:User groups
Special:ListGroupRights
User permissions API
Wikipedia:Editorial oversight and control (explains the access structure from the perspective of quality control on Wikipedia)
Wikipedia:Requests for permissions (to request certain userrights)
See what usergroup a user is in
Sockpuppet investigations







v
t
e


Requests for permissions






Types



Account creator
Autopatrolled
AutoWikiBrowser
Confirmed
Extended confirmed
File mover
Mass message sender
New page reviewer
Page mover
Pending changes reviewer
Rollback
Template editor








Logs



Archive
Approved
Denied








Other



Requests for Adminship
Requests for Bureaucratship
User access levels












v
t
e


Wikipedia technical help







Get personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.






General technical
help



Multilingual support
Special Characters

Entering


Browser notes

Troubleshooting
Bypass cache


Mobile access
Printing
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing

Edit toolbar
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Reverting


VisualEditor

User guide


User access levels
Software notices

Editnotice


IRC

Tutorial


Create a page
Page history
Page information
Page name

Introduction










Special page related



Special page help
Searching

Advanced search
Linksearch


Logging in

Reset passwords


Notifications/Echo

FAQ


Moving a page

Fixing cut-and-paste moves


Watching pages
User contributions
Emailing users
Random pages
Logs
What links here
Related changes
Recent changes
Pending changes
Page Curation
Page import
Edit filter
Tags








Wiki markup



Wiki markup main page

Cheatsheet


Colours use
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words

For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function


Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables

Introduction
Basics
Conditional tables
Sorting
Collapsing
Advanced table formatting










Links and diffs



URLs
Links
Permanent link
Interwikimedia links
Interlanguage links
Link color
Pipe trick
Colon trick
Magic links
Diffs

Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide










Media files: images,
videos and sounds



Media help
Options to hide an image
Uploading images

Introduction


Files

Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons


Visual file markup
Images

Preparing images for upload
Picture tutorial
Extended image syntax


Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials

Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality


Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
SVG help








Other graphics



Family trees
Graphs and charts

How to create
To scale charts
Barcharts


Math formula

Math symbols
Rendering math
LaTeX symbols


Musical scores

Musical symbols


Timeline

EasyTimeline syntax


WikiHiero syntax








Templates
and Lua modules



Templates
Template messages
Citation templates
Transclusion

Labeled section


Substitution
Advanced template coding
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Template documentation
Purge
Lua help
Lua project

To do
Resources


Guide to Scribbling








Data structure



Namespaces
Main/Article
Talk namespaces

Archiving


User

User page design


Project/Wikipedia
File

File pages


MediaWiki

Bug reports and feature requests
System message


Template
Help
Category
Portal
Book
Draft
Education Program
TimedText
Module/Lua
Topic/Flow
Special
Media








HTML and CSS



HTML in wikitext
Markup validation
Span tags
Cascading Style Sheets
Catalogue of CSS classes
Useful styles
Classes used in microformats
Ambox classes
Common.js and common.css








Customisation and tools



Preferences
Skins
Customizing watchlists

Hide pages


Gadgets
Beta Features
User scripts

Guide
Techniques


IRC Scripts
User styles
Tools

Navigation shortcuts
Browser tools
Alternative browsing
Editing tools
Optimum tool set


Cleaning up vandalism tools
Citation tools
Wikimedia Labs








Automating editing



Bots

Creating


Twinkle
FurMe
NPWatcher
HotCat
WPCleaner
igloo
AutoWikiBrowser
Navigation popups
STiki
AfC helper script
Huggle








Relevant navigation



Help pages

Administrators


Templates
Referencing

Citation metadata


Accessibility
Bots
User scripts










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to











v
t
e


Wikipedia accounts and governance






Unregistered (IP) users



Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper








Registered users



New account
Logging in

Reset passwords


Username policy

Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention


Unified login or SUL
Alternate account








Account security



Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication

Simple 2FA
2FA for AWB


Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts








Blocks, global locks,
bans, sanctions



Blocking policy

FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock


Appealing a block

Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System


Blocking IP addresses

Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies


Global locks
Banning policy

ArbCom appeals


Sanctions

Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay


Long-term abuse
Standard offer








Related to accounts



Sock puppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak

Enforcer


Retiring

Courtesy vanishing


Clean start

Quiet return










User groups
and global user groups



Requests for permissions

Admin instructions
Admin guide


Account creator

PERM


Autopatrolled

PERM


AutoWikiBrowser

PERM


Confirmed

PERM


Extended confirmed

PERM


File mover

PERM


Mass message sender

PERM


New page reviewer

PERM


Page mover

PERM


Pending changes reviewer

PERM


Rollback

PERM


Template editor

PERM


IP-block-exempt

Requests


Courses access

Requests


Bot accounts

Requests


Global rights policy

OTRS Volunteer Response Team










Advanced user groups



Administrators

RfA


Bureaucrats

RfB


Edit filter manager

Requests


CheckUser and Oversight

Requests










Committees and related



Arbitration Committee
Mediation Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks








Governance



Administration

FAQ


Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation

Meta-Wiki


Leadership opportunities
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Unbundling administrators' powers
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:User_access_levels&oldid=764621696#Autoconfirmed_and_confirmed_users"					
Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia glossary itemsWikipedia requests for permissionsWikipedia user access levelsWikipedia featuresHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsMeta-WikiWikidataWikiversity 



Languages


AlemannischالعربيةAzərbaycancaবাংলাभोजपुरीBoarischBosanskiCatalàDanskDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGagauzگیلکیગુજરાતી客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî한국어HornjoserbsceHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoქართულიҚазақшаKurdîLatviešuMagyarमैथिलीമലയാളംМонголNederlandsनेपाली日本語Norsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆភាសាខ្មែរPlattdüütschPolskiPortuguêsРусскийShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSoomaaligaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeاردوVènetoTiếng Việt文言吴语粵語Zeêuws中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 9 February 2017, at 23:36.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.420","walltime":"0.529","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2377,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":163191,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":1327,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":12,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  340.333      1 -total"," 20.24%   68.888      1 Template:Reflist"," 17.07%   58.105      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 12.35%   42.024      2 Template:Cite_web","  9.04%   30.772      1 Template:Wikipedia_information_page","  7.37%   25.068     13 Template:Shortcut","  7.19%   24.453     20 Template:Anchors","  6.99%   23.799      1 Template:Ombox","  5.00%   17.030      3 Template:Navbox","  4.04%   13.741      1 Template:As_of"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.136","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":4168805,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1229","timestamp":"20170209233555","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":70,"wgHostname":"mw1184"});});
