 







Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:BLP)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search




If you are concerned about the accuracy or appropriateness of biographical material on Wikipedia, report problems at the biographies of living persons noticeboard. For articles about yourself, please see "Dealing with articles about yourself" below.

Shortcuts:

WP:ALIVE
WP:BLP
WP:LIVE








This page documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.





This page in a nutshell: Material about living persons added to any Wikipedia page must be written with the greatest care and attention to verifiability, neutrality, and avoidance of original research.


Find this page confusing? Just use this link to ask for help on your talk page; a volunteer will visit you there shortly!




If you have a complaint about a biography of a living person, and you wish to contact the Wikimedia Foundation, see Contact us.


Editors must take particular care when adding information about living persons to any Wikipedia page.[1] Such material requires a high degree of sensitivity, and must adhere strictly to all applicable laws in the United States, to this policy, and to Wikipedia's three core content policies:

Neutral point of view (NPOV)
Verifiability (V)
No original research (NOR)

We must get the article right. Be very firm about the use of high-quality sources. All quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be supported by an inline citation to a reliable, published source. Contentious material about living persons (or, in some cases, recently deceased) that is unsourced or poorly sourced—whether the material is negative, positive, neutral, or just questionable—should be removed immediately and without waiting for discussion.[2] Users who persistently or egregiously violate this policy may be blocked from editing.
Biographies of living persons ("BLPs") must be written conservatively and with regard for the subject's privacy. Wikipedia is an encyclopedia, not a tabloid: it is not Wikipedia's job to be sensationalist, or to be the primary vehicle for the spread of titillating claims about people's lives; the possibility of harm to living subjects must always be considered when exercising editorial judgment. This policy applies to any living person mentioned in a BLP, whether or not that person is the subject of the article, and to material about living persons in other articles and on other pages, including talk pages.[3] The burden of evidence rests with the editor who adds or restores material.


Core content policies




Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability




Other content policies




Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use policy
What Wikipedia is not







v
t
e








Contents


1 Writing style

1.1 Tone
1.2 Balance
1.3 Attack pages


2 Reliable sources

2.1 Challenged or likely to be challenged
2.2 Avoid misuse of primary sources
2.3 Avoid self-published sources

2.3.1 Using the subject as a self-published source


2.4 Avoid gossip and feedback loops
2.5 Remove contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced
2.6 Further reading, External links, and See also


3 Presumption in favor of privacy

3.1 Avoid victimization
3.2 Public figures
3.3 Privacy of personal information and using primary sources
3.4 People who are relatively unknown
3.5 Subjects notable only for one event
3.6 People accused of crime
3.7 Privacy of names


4 Applicability of the policy

4.1 Non-article space
4.2 Usernames
4.3 Images
4.4 Categories, lists and navigation templates
4.5 Applicability to deceased persons, corporations, or groups of persons

4.5.1 Recently dead or probably dead
4.5.2 Legal persons and groups




5 Using BLPs to continue disputes
6 Maintenance of BLPs

6.1 Importance of maintenance
6.2 Templates


7 Relationship between the subject, the article, and Wikipedia

7.1 Dealing with edits by the subject of the article
7.2 Dealing with articles about yourself
7.3 Legal issues
7.4 How to contact the Wikimedia Foundation
7.5 Wikimedia Foundation resolution


8 Role of administrators

8.1 Page protection, blocks
8.2 Discretionary sanctions
8.3 Deletion of BLPs

8.3.1 Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking
8.3.2 Deletion of BLPs of relatively unknown subjects
8.3.3 Restoring deleted content
8.3.4 Proposed deletion of biographies of living people




9 See also
10 Notes
11 Further reading



Writing style
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPSTYLE



Tone
BLPs should be written responsibly, cautiously, and in a dispassionate tone, avoiding both understatement and overstatement. Articles should document in a non-partisan manner what reliable secondary sources have published about the subjects, and in some circumstances what the subjects have published about themselves. BLPs should not have trivia sections.
Balance
Further information: Wikipedia:COATRACK
Criticism and praise should be included if they can be sourced to reliable secondary sources, so long as the material is presented responsibly, conservatively, and in a disinterested tone. Do not give disproportionate space to particular viewpoints; the views of tiny minorities should not be included at all. Care must be taken with article structure to ensure the overall presentation and section headings are broadly neutral. Beware of claims that rely on guilt by association, and biased, malicious or overly promotional content.
The idea expressed in WP:Eventualism—that every Wikipedia article is a work in progress, and that it is therefore okay for an article to be temporarily unbalanced because it will eventually be brought into shape—does not apply to biographies. Given their potential impact on biography subjects' lives, biographies must be fair to their subjects at all times.
Attack pages
Further information: Wikipedia:Attack pages and Wikipedia:Criteria for speedy deletion § G10
Pages that are unsourced and negative in tone, especially when they appear to have been created primarily to disparage the subject, should be deleted at once if there is no policy-compliant version to revert to; see #Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking. Non-administrators should tag them with {{db-attack}}. Creation of such pages, especially when repeated or in bad faith, is grounds for immediate blocking.
Reliable sources
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPSOURCES



Challenged or likely to be challenged
Main page: WP:SOURCES
Wikipedia's sourcing policy, Verifiability, says that all quotations and any material challenged or likely to be challenged must be attributed to a reliable, published source using an inline citation; material not meeting this standard may be removed. This policy extends that principle, adding that contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced should be removed immediately and without discussion. This applies whether the material is negative, positive, neutral, or just questionable, and whether it is in a biography or in some other article. Material should not be added to an article when the only sourcing is tabloid journalism. When material is both verifiable and noteworthy, it will have appeared in more reliable sources.
Avoid misuse of primary sources
Further information: WP:PRIMARY

Shortcut:

WP:BLPPRIMARY


Exercise extreme caution in using primary sources. Do not use trial transcripts and other court records, or other public documents, to support assertions about a living person. Do not use public records that include personal details, such as date of birth, home value, traffic citations, vehicle registrations, and home or business addresses.
Where primary-source material has been discussed by a reliable secondary source, it may be acceptable to rely on it to augment the secondary source, subject to the restrictions of this policy, no original research, and the other sourcing policies.[4]
Avoid self-published sources


Shortcut:

WP:BLPSPS


Never use self-published sources—including but not limited to books, zines, websites, blogs, and tweets—as sources of material about a living person, unless written or published by the subject of the article (see #Using the subject as a self-published source). "Self-published blogs" in this context refers to personal and group blogs. Some news organizations host online columns that they call blogs, and these may be acceptable as sources so long as the writers are professionals and the blog is subject to the newspaper's full editorial control. Posts left by readers are never acceptable as sources.[5] See #Images for our policy on self-published images.
Using the subject as a self-published source

Shortcut:

WP:BLPSELFPUB


Further information: WP:SELFPUB
Living persons may publish material about themselves, such as through press releases or personal websites. Such material may be used as a source only if:

it is not unduly self-serving;
it does not involve claims about third parties;
it does not involve claims about events not directly related to the subject;
there is no reasonable doubt as to its authenticity;
the article is not based primarily on such sources.

Avoid gossip and feedback loops
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPGOSSIP



Avoid repeating gossip. Ask yourself whether the source is reliable; whether the material is being presented as true; and whether, even if true, it is relevant to a disinterested article about the subject. Be wary of relying on sources that use weasel words and that attribute material to anonymous sources. Also beware of circular reporting, in which material in a Wikipedia article gets picked up by a source, which is later cited in the Wikipedia article to support the original edit.
Remove contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced

See also: Wikipedia:Libel
Policy shortcuts:


WP:GRAPEVINE
WP:BLPREMOVE




Remove immediately any contentious material about a living person that:

is unsourced or poorly sourced;
is a conjectural interpretation of a source (see No original research);
relies on self-published sources, unless written by the subject of the BLP (see #Using the subject as a self-published source); or
relies on sources that fail in some other way to meet Verifiability standards.

Note that, although the three-revert rule does not apply to such removals, what counts as exempt under BLP can be controversial. Editors who find themselves in edit wars over potentially defamatory material about living persons should consider raising the matter at the biographies of living persons noticeboard instead of relying on the exemption.
Administrators may enforce the removal of clear BLP violations with page protection or by blocking the violator(s), even if they have been editing the article themselves or are in some other way involved. In less clear cases they should request the attention of an uninvolved administrator at Wikipedia:Administrators Noticeboard/Incidents. See WP:BLPADMINS.
Further reading, External links, and See also

Shortcuts:

WP:BLPEL
WP:BLPFR
WP:BLPSEEALSO


External links about living persons, whether in BLPs or elsewhere, are held to a higher standard than for other topics. Questionable or self-published sources should not be included in the "Further reading" or "External links" sections of BLPs, and, when including such links in other articles, make sure the material linked to does not violate this policy. Self-published sources written or published by the subject of a BLP may be included in the "Further reading" or "External links" sections of that BLP with caution (see #Using the subject as a self-published source). In general, do not link to websites that contradict the spirit of this policy or violate the External links guideline. Where that guideline is inconsistent with this or any other policy, the policies prevail.
"See also" links, whether placed in their own section or in a note within the text, should not be used to imply any contentious labeling, association, or claim regarding a living person, and must adhere to Wikipedia's policy of No original research.
Presumption in favor of privacy
Avoid victimization
Policy shortcut:


WP:AVOIDVICTIM



When writing about a person noteworthy only for one or two events, including every detail can lead to problems—even when the material is well sourced. When in doubt, biographies should be pared back to a version that is completely sourced, neutral, and on-topic. This is of particular importance when dealing with living individuals whose notability stems largely or entirely from being victims of another's actions. Wikipedia editors must not act, intentionally or otherwise, in a way that amounts to participating in or prolonging the victimization.
Public figures
Policy shortcuts:


WP:PUBLICFIGURE
WP:WELLKNOWN



In the case of public figures, there will be a multitude of reliable published sources, and BLPs should simply document what these sources say. If an allegation or incident is noteworthy, relevant, and well documented, it belongs in the article—even if it is negative and the subject dislikes all mention of it. If you cannot find multiple reliable third-party sources documenting the allegation or incident, leave it out.

Example: "John Doe had a messy divorce from Jane Doe." Is the divorce important to the article, and was it published by third-party reliable sources? If not, leave it out. If so, avoid use of "messy" and stick to the facts: "John Doe and Jane Doe divorced."
Example: A politician is alleged to have had an affair. He or she denies it, but multiple major newspapers publish the allegations, and there is a public scandal. The allegation belongs in the biography, citing those sources. However, it should only state that the politician was alleged to have had the affair, not that he or she actually did. If the subject has denied such allegations, that should also be reported.

Privacy of personal information and using primary sources

Shortcuts:

WP:BLPPRIVACY
WP:DOB


See also: § Privacy of names
With identity theft a serious ongoing concern, people increasingly regard their full names and dates of birth as private. Wikipedia includes full names and dates of birth that have been widely published by reliable sources, or by sources linked to the subject such that it may reasonably be inferred that the subject does not object. If the subject complains about the inclusion of the date of birth, or the person is borderline notable, err on the side of caution and simply list the year. In a similar vein, articles should not include postal addresses, e-mail addresses, telephone numbers, or other contact information for living persons, although links to websites maintained by the subject are generally permitted. See #Avoid misuse of primary sources regarding the misuse of primary sources to obtain personal information about subjects.
People who are relatively unknown
"WP:NPF" redirects here. For the New Pages Feed, see Special:NewPagesFeed.
See also: Wikipedia:Who is a low profile individual
Policy shortcuts:


WP:NOTPUBLICFIGURE
WP:NPF



Many Wikipedia articles contain material on people who are not well known, even if they are notable enough for their own article. In such cases, exercise restraint and include only material relevant to the person's notability, focusing on high-quality secondary sources. Material published by the subject may be used, but with caution; see #Using the subject as a self-published source. Material that may adversely affect a person's reputation should be treated with special care; in many jurisdictions, repeating a defamatory claim is actionable, and there are additional protections for subjects who are not public figures.
Subjects notable only for one event
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLP1E



Further information: Wikipedia:Notability (people) § People notable for only one event
Wikipedia is not news, or an indiscriminate collection of information. Being in the news does not in itself mean that someone should be the subject of a Wikipedia article. We should generally avoid having an article on a person when each of three conditions is met:

If reliable sources cover the person only in the context of a single event.
If that person otherwise remains, and is likely to remain, a low-profile individual. Biographies in these cases can give undue weight to the event and conflict with neutral point of view. In such cases, it is usually better to merge the information and redirect the person's name to the event article.
If the event is not significant or the individual's role was either not substantial or not well documented. John Hinckley, Jr., for example, has a separate article because the single event he was associated with, the Reagan assassination attempt, was significant and his role was both substantial and well documented.

The significance of an event or individual is indicated by how persistent the coverage is in reliable sources. It is important for editors to understand two clear differentiations of the People notable for only one event guideline (WP:BIO1E) when compared with this policy (WP:BLP1E): WP:BLP1E should be applied only to biographies of living people and to biographies of low-profile individuals.
In addition, some subject specific notability guidelines such as Wikipedia:Notability (sports) provide criteria that may support the notability of certain individuals who are known chiefly for one event.
People accused of crime
See also: Wikipedia:Notability (events) § Criminal acts, and Wikipedia:Notability (people) § Crime victims and perpetrators

Shortcut:

WP:BLPCRIME


A living person accused of a crime is presumed innocent until convicted by a court of law. For relatively unknown people, editors must seriously consider not including material in any article suggesting that the person has committed a crime, or is accused of having committed one, unless a conviction is secured.[6] If different judicial proceedings result in seemingly contradictory judgments that do not override each other,[7] include all the explanatory information.
Privacy of names

Shortcuts:

WP:BLPNAME
WP:LPNAME


Caution should be applied when identifying individuals who are discussed primarily in terms of a single event. When the name of a private individual has not been widely disseminated or has been intentionally concealed, such as in certain court cases or occupations, it is often preferable to omit it, especially when doing so does not result in a significant loss of context. When deciding whether to include a name, its publication in secondary sources other than news media, such as scholarly journals or the work of recognized experts, should be afforded greater weight than the brief appearance of names in news stories. Consider whether the inclusion of names of living private individuals who are not directly involved in an article's topic adds significant value.
The presumption in favor of privacy is strong in the case of family members of articles' subjects and other loosely involved, otherwise low-profile persons. The names of any immediate, ex, or significant family members or any significant relationship of the subject of a BLP may be part of an article, if reliably sourced, subject to editorial discretion that such information is relevant to a reader's complete understanding of the subject. However, names of family members who are not also notable public figures must be removed from an article if they are not properly sourced.
Applicability of the policy
BLP applies to all material about living persons anywhere on Wikipedia, including talk pages, edit summaries, user pages, images, categories, lists, article titles and drafts.
Non-article space
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPTALK



Contentious material about living persons that is unsourced or poorly sourced and not related to making content choices should be removed, deleted, or oversighted, as appropriate. When seeking advice about whether to publish something about a living person, be careful not to post so much information on the talk page that the inquiry becomes moot. For example, it would be appropriate to begin a discussion by stating This link has serious allegations about subject; should we summarize this someplace in the article? The same principle applies to problematic images. Questionable claims already discussed can be removed with a reference to the previous discussion.
The BLP policy also applies to user and user talk pages. The single exception is that users may make any claim they wish about themselves in their user space, so long as they are not engaged in impersonation, and subject to what Wikipedia is not, though minors are discouraged from disclosing identifying personal information on their userpages; for more information, see here.[8] Although this policy applies to posts about Wikipedians in project space, some leeway is permitted to allow the handling of administrative issues by the community, but administrators may delete such material if it rises to the level of defamation, or if it constitutes a violation of no personal attacks.
Usernames
See also: WP:BLPABUSE

Shortcut:

WP:BLPNAMEABUSE


Disruptive and offensive usernames (for example, names containing contentious material about living persons, or that are clearly abusive towards any race, religion or social group) should be immediately blocked and suppressed from logs. Requests for removing attack usernames from logs should be reported to the Oversight team for evaluation.
Images
Further information: Wikipedia:No original research § Original images
Policy shortcut:


WP:MUG



Images of living persons should not be used out of context to present a person in a false or disparaging light. This is particularly important for police booking photographs (mugshots), or situations where the subject did not expect to be photographed. Images of living persons that have been generated by Wikipedians and others may be used only if they have been released under a copyright licence that is compatible with Wikipedia:Image use policy.
Categories, lists and navigation templates
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPCAT



See also: Wikipedia:Categorization of people; Wikipedia:Categories, lists, and navigation templates; Wikipedia:Categorization/Ethnicity, gender, religion and sexuality; and Wikipedia:Eponymous overcategorization
Category names do not carry disclaimers or modifiers, so the case for each content category must be made clear by the article text and its reliable sources. Categories regarding religious beliefs (or lack of such) or sexual orientation should not be used unless the subject has publicly self-identified with the belief or orientation in question, and the subject's beliefs or sexual orientation are relevant to their public life or notability, according to reliable published sources.
Caution should be used with content categories that suggest a person has a poor reputation (see false light). For example, Category:Criminals and its subcategories should only be added for an incident that is relevant to the person's notability; the incident was published by reliable third-party sources; the subject was convicted; and the conviction was not overturned on appeal.
These principles apply equally to lists, navigation templates, and {{Infobox}} statements (referring to living persons within any Wikipedia page) that are based on religious beliefs or sexual orientation or suggest that any living person has a poor reputation. This policy does not limit the use of administrative categories for WikiProjects, article clean-up, or other normal editor activities.
Applicability to deceased persons, corporations, or groups of persons
Recently dead or probably dead
Policy shortcut:


WP:BDP



Anyone born within the past 115 years is covered by this policy unless a reliable source has confirmed their death. Generally, this policy does not apply to material concerning people who are confirmed dead by reliable sources. The only exception would be for people who have recently died, in which case the policy can extend for an indeterminate period beyond the date of death—six months, one year, two years at the outside. Such extensions would apply particularly to contentious or questionable material about the dead that has implications for their living relatives and friends, such as in the case of a possible suicide or a particularly gruesome crime. Even absent confirmation of death, for the purposes of this policy anyone born more than 115 years ago is presumed dead unless reliable sources confirm the person to have been living within the past two years.
Legal persons and groups
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPGROUP



This policy does not normally apply to material about corporations, companies, or other entities regarded as legal persons, though any such material must be written in accordance with other content policies. The extent to which the BLP policy applies to edits about groups is complex and must be judged on a case-by-case basis. A harmful statement about a small group or organization comes closer to being a BLP problem than a similar statement about a larger group; and when the group is very small, it may be impossible to draw a distinction between the group and the individuals that make up the group. When in doubt, make sure you are using high-quality sources.

Using BLPs to continue disputes
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPCOI



Wikipedia articles concerning living persons may include material—where relevant, properly weighted, and reliably sourced—about controversies or disputes in which the article subject has been involved. Wikipedia is not a forum provided for parties to off-wiki disputes to continue their hostilities. Experience has shown that misusing Wikipedia to perpetuate legal, political, social, literary, scholarly, or other disputes is harmful to the subjects of biographical articles, to other parties in the dispute, and to Wikipedia itself.
Therefore, an editor who is involved in a significant controversy or dispute with another individual—whether on- or off-wiki—or who is an avowed rival of that individual, should not edit that person's biography or other material about that person, given the potential conflict of interest. More generally, editors who have a strongly negative or positive view of the subject of an article should be especially careful to edit that article neutrally, if they choose to edit it at all.[9]
Maintenance of BLPs
Importance of maintenance
Report BLP incidents at the biographies of living persons noticeboard.
Wikipedia contains hundreds of thousands of articles about living persons. From both a legal and ethical standpoint it is essential that a determined effort be made to eliminate defamatory and other inappropriate material from these articles, but these concerns must be balanced against other concerns, such as allowing articles to show a bias in the subject's favor by removing appropriate material simply because the subject objects to it, or allowing articles about non-notable publicity-seekers to be retained. When in doubt about whether material in a BLP is appropriate, the article should be pared back to a policy-compliant version. Sometimes the use of administrative tools such as page protection and deletion is necessary for the enforcement of this policy, and in extreme cases action by Wikimedia Foundation staff is required.
Templates 
{{BLP}} alerting readers to this policy may be added to the talk pages of BLPs and other articles that focus on living persons. {{Blpo}} is suitable for articles containing material on the deceased that also contains material about living persons. If a {{WPBiography}} template is present, you can add |living=yes to the template parameters. If a {{WikiProjectBannerShell}} template is also present, add |blp=yes to it.
For articles, {{BLP dispute}} may be used on BLPs needing attention; {{BLP sources}} on BLPs needing better sourcing (an alternative is {{BLP primary sources}}); and {{BLP unsourced}} for those with no sources at all. {{BLP noticeboard}} should be placed on the talk page of BLP articles that are being discussed on the biographies of living persons noticeboard.
For editors violating this policy, the following can be used to warn them on their talk pages:

{{uw-biog1}}
{{uw-biog2}} or {{blp0}}
{{uw-biog3}} or {{blp1}}
{{uw-biog4}} or {{blp2}}
{{blp3}} for when a block is issued

The template {{BLP removal}} can be used on the talk page of an article to explain why material has been removed under this policy, and under what conditions the material may be replaced.
Relationship between the subject, the article, and Wikipedia
Dealing with edits by the subject of the article

Shortcuts:

WP:BLPEDIT
WP:BLPKIND
WP:BLPKINDNESS


Subjects sometimes become involved in editing material about themselves, either directly or through a representative. The Arbitration Committee has ruled in favor of showing leniency to BLP subjects who try to fix what they see as errors or unfair material. Editors should make every effort to act with kindness toward the subjects of biographical material when the subjects arrive to express concern.
Although Wikipedia discourages people from writing about themselves, removal of unsourced or poorly sourced material is acceptable. When an anonymous editor blanks all or part of a BLP, this might be the subject attempting to remove problematic material. Edits like this by subjects should not be treated as vandalism; instead, the subject should be invited to explain their concerns. The Arbitration Committee established the following principle in December 2005:



Wikipedia:Please do not bite the newcomers, a guideline, advises Wikipedia users to consider the obvious fact that new users of Wikipedia will do things wrong from time to time. For those who either have or might have an article about themselves, there is a temptation - especially if apparently wrong or strongly negative information is included in such an article - to become involved in questions regarding their own article. This can open the door to rather immature behavior and loss of dignity for the new user. It is a violation of don't bite the newbies to strongly criticize users who fall into this trap, rather than see this phenomenon as a new editor mistake.[10]



Dealing with articles about yourself

Shortcuts:

WP:BIOSELF
WP:BLPSELF
WP:BLPCOMPLAIN
WP:BLPCOMPLAINT


Wikipedia has editorial policies that will often help to resolve your concern, as well as many users willing to help and a wide range of escalation processes. Very obvious errors can be fixed quickly, including by yourself. But beyond that, post suggestions on the article talk page, or place {{adminhelp}} on your user talk page. You may also post an explanation of your concern on the biographies of living persons noticeboard and ask that uninvolved editors evaluate the article to make sure it is fairly written and properly sourced. Please bear in mind that Wikipedia is almost entirely operated by volunteers; impolite behavior, even if entirely understandable, will often be less effective.
Legal issues
Subjects who have legal or other serious concerns about material they find about themselves on a Wikipedia page, whether in a BLP or elsewhere, may contact the Wikimedia Foundation's volunteer response team (known as OTRS). Please e-mail info-en-q@wikimedia.org with a link to the article and details of the problem; for more information on how to get an error corrected, see here. It is usually better to ask for help rather than trying to change the material yourself.
As noted above, individuals involved in a significant legal or other off-wiki dispute with the subject of a biographical article are strongly discouraged from editing that article.
How to contact the Wikimedia Foundation




Contact us


See also: Wikimedia Foundation
If you are not satisfied with the response of editors and admins to a concern about biographical material about living persons, you can contact the Wikimedia Foundation directly. See Contact us for details.
Wikimedia Foundation resolution
Further information: Foundation:Resolution:Biographies of living people
On April 9, 2009, the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Trustees passed a resolution regarding Wikimedia's handling of material about living persons. It noted that there are problems with some BLPs being overly promotional in tone, being vandalized, and containing errors and smears. The Foundation urges that special attention be paid to neutrality and verifiability regarding living persons; that human dignity and personal privacy be taken into account, especially in articles of ephemeral or marginal interest; that new technical mechanisms be investigated for assessing edits that affect living people; and that anyone who has a complaint about how they are described on the project's websites be treated with patience, kindness, and respect.
Role of administrators
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPADMINS



Page protection, blocks
Administrators who suspect malicious or biased editing, or believe that inappropriate material may be added or restored, may protect or semi-protect pages. Administrators may enforce the removal of clear BLP violations with page protection or by blocking the violator(s), even if they have been editing the article themselves or are in some other way involved. In less clear cases they should request the attention of an uninvolved administrator at Wikipedia:Administrators Noticeboard/Incidents.
See WP:BLP#Templates for appropriate templates to use when warning or blocking for BLP violations.
Discretionary sanctions
Policy shortcut:


WP:BLPDS



Editors are also subject to Wikipedia:Arbitration Committee/Discretionary sanctions pursuant to WP:NEWBLPBAN, which in May 2014 authorized the application of discretionary sanctions to "any edit in any article with biographical content relating to living or recently deceased people or any edit relating to the subject (living or recently deceased) of such biographical articles on any page in any namespace." The discretionary sanctions allow administrators to apply topic bans and other measures that may not be reverted without community consensus or the agreement of the enforcing administrator.
Deletion of BLPs
Policy shortcuts:


WP:BLPDEL
WP:BLPDELETE



Summary deletion, creation prevention, and courtesy blanking
Further information: Wikipedia:Deletion policy § Deletion of biographies and BLPs
Biographical material about a living individual that is not compliant with this policy should be improved and rectified; if this is not possible, then it should be removed. If the entire page is substantially of poor quality, primarily containing contentious material that is unsourced or poorly sourced, then it may be necessary to delete the entire page as an initial step, followed by discussion.
Page deletion is normally a last resort. If a dispute centers around a page's inclusion (e.g., because of questionable notability or where the subject has requested deletion), this is addressed via deletion discussions rather than by summary deletion. Summary deletion is appropriate when the page contains unsourced negative material or is written non-neutrally, and when this cannot readily be rewritten or restored to an earlier version of an acceptable standard. The deleting administrator should be prepared to explain the action to others, by e-mail if the material is sensitive. Those who object to the deletion should bear in mind that the deleting admin may be aware of issues that others are not. Disputes may be taken to deletion review, but protracted public discussion should be avoided for deletions involving sensitive personal material about living persons, particularly if it is negative. Such debates may be courtesy blanked upon conclusion. After the deletion, any administrator may choose to protect it against re-creation. Even if the page is not protected against re-creation, it should not be re-created unless a consensus is demonstrated in support of re-creation.
Deletion of BLPs of relatively unknown subjects
Further information: Wikipedia:Deletion policy § Deletion of biographies and BLPs

Shortcut:

WP:BLPREQUESTDELETE


Where the subject of a BLP has requested deletion, the deletion policy says: "Discussions concerning biographical articles of relatively unknown, non-public figures, where the subject has requested deletion and there is no rough consensus, may be closed as delete." In addition, it says: "Poorly sourced biographical articles of unknown, non-public figures, where the discussions have no editor opposing the deletion, may be deleted after discussions have been completed."
Restoring deleted content

Shortcut:

WP:BLPREQUESTRESTORE


To ensure that material about living people is written neutrally to a high standard, and based on high-quality reliable sources, the burden of proof is on those who wish to retain, restore, or undelete the disputed material. When material about living persons has been deleted on good-faith BLP objections, any editor wishing to add, restore, or undelete it must ensure it complies with Wikipedia's content policies. If it is to be restored without significant change, consensus must be obtained first. Material that has been repaired to address concerns should be judged on a case-by-case basis.
In the case of an administrator deleting a complete article, wherever possible such disputed deletions should be discussed first with the administrator who deleted the article.
Proposed deletion of biographies of living people
Further information: Wikipedia:Proposed deletion of biographies of living people
All BLPs created after March 18, 2010 must have at least one source that supports at least one statement made about the person in the article, or it may be proposed for deletion. The tag may not be removed until a reliable source is provided, and if none is forthcoming, the article may be deleted after seven days. This does not affect other deletion processes mentioned in BLP policy and elsewhere.
See also



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Template:Personality rights.





This page is referenced from the glossary.




Foundation policies and resolutions


Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy
Foundation resolution on biographies of living persons, April 2009.


Arbitration cases


Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Badlydrawnjeff, July 2007.
Arbitration Committee/Motion regarding BLP deletions, January 2010.
Wikipedia:Arbitration/Requests/Case/Manipulation of BLPs, September 2011.


Policies


Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability
What Wikipedia is not


Guidelines


Attack page
Autobiography
Conflict of interest
Wikipedia:Fringe theories#Treatment of living persons
Manual of Style/Biographies
Notability (people)


Requests for comment


Requests for comment/Biographies of living people—Phase I; Phase II, January 2010


FAQs


FAQ/Article subjects
FAQ/Organizations


Essays


An article about yourself isn't necessarily a good thing
Avoiding harm
Coatrack
Community essays on BLP
Criticism
Signatures of living persons
User essays on BLP


Discussion forums


Biographies of living persons/Noticeboard
WikiProject Deletion sorting/Living people


Related pages


Wikipedia:Requested articles/Biographies
Wikipedia:WikiProject Unreferenced Biographies of Living Persons
Wikipedia:WikiProject Unreferenced BLP Rescue

Notes


^ People are presumed to be living unless there is reason to believe otherwise. This policy does not apply to people declared dead in absentia.
^ Jimmy Wales. "WikiEN-l Zero information is preferred to misleading or false information", May 16, 2006, and May 19, 2006; Jimmy Wales. Keynote speech, Wikimania, August 2006.
^ For examples of arbitration cases that refer to this policy's parameters, see:

Rachel Marsden case, 28 November 2006: "Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons applies to all living persons in an entry, not merely the subject of the entry."

Manning naming dispute, 16 October 2013: "The biographies of living persons policy applies to all references to living persons throughout Wikipedia, including the titles of articles and pages and all other portions of any page."

^ Please note that exceptional claims require exceptional sources
^ From Wikipedia:Verifiability#cite note-3.
^ A conviction is secured through judicial proceedings; accusations, investigations and arrests do not amount to a conviction. WP:BLPCRIME applies to individuals who are not covered by WP:WELLKNOWN.
^ An example of this situation is the O. J. Simpson murder case, where the former footballer O. J. Simpson was acquitted in 1995 of the crime of murdering Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, but was found liable of their wrongful death in a civil trial two years later.
^ See Wikipedia:Credentials and its talk page.
^ The Columbia Center for New Media Teaching and Learning, Columbia University: "A conflict of interest involves the abuse – actual, apparent, or potential – of the trust that people have in professionals. The simplest working definition states: A conflict of interest is a situation in which financial or other personal considerations have the potential to compromise or bias professional judgment and objectivity. An apparent conflict of interest is one in which a reasonable person would think that the professional's judgment is likely to be compromised. A potential conflict of interest involves a situation that may develop into an actual conflict of interest. It is important to note that a conflict of interest exists whether or not decisions are affected by a personal interest; a conflict of interest implies only the potential for bias, not a likelihood. It is also important to note that a conflict of interest is not considered misconduct in research, since the definition for misconduct is currently limited to fabrication, falsification, and plagiarism."

The New York Times Company: "Conflicts of interest, real or apparent, may arise in many areas. They may involve tensions between journalists' professional obligations to our audience and their relationships with news sources, advocacy groups, advertisers, or competitors; with one another; or with the company or one of its units. And at a time when two-career families are the norm, the civic and professional activities of spouses, household members and other relatives can create conflicts or the appearance of them."

^ Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Rangerdude#Mercy. Passed 6-0-1.


Further reading

Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees







v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Biographies_of_living_persons&oldid=760829622"					
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia glossary itemsWikiProject Biography work groups and child projectsWikipedia BLP policyWikipedia content policiesHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Meta-WikiWikidataWikiquoteWikiversityWikivoyage 



Languages


العربيةঅসমীয়াবাংলাБългарскиCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalegoગુજરાતી한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålଓଡ଼ିଆPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenščinaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்Татарча/tatarçaతెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 19 January 2017, at 09:35.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.300","walltime":"0.406","ppvisitednodes":{"value":4312,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":96484,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":5885,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":13,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":24,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  300.255      1 -total"," 26.26%   78.841     17 Template:Policy_shortcut"," 21.69%   65.133     17 Template:Bulleted_list"," 18.16%   54.522      1 Template:Pp-semi-indef"," 11.66%   35.001     21 Template:No_redirect","  7.40%   22.226      1 Template:Notice","  7.26%   21.794      2 Template:Mbox","  6.80%   20.414     12 Template:Shortcut","  4.88%   14.643      1 Template:Wikipedia_policies_and_guidelines","  4.68%   14.054     10 Template:See"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.110","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":4122098,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1271","timestamp":"20170204002355","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":65,"wgHostname":"mw1220"});});
