 







Wikipedia:Edit warring

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:Edit war)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For edit wars between Wikipedia administrators, see WP:Wheel warring.
For the technical problem where multiple editors try to edit the same page at once, see Wikipedia:Edit conflict.
"WP:EW" redirects here. To report editors who are edit warring, please see the Edit warring noticeboard.



This page documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.


Shortcuts:

WP:EW
WP:WAR
WP:EDITWAR
WP:STRIFE








This page in a nutshell: Don't use edits to fight with other editors – disagreements should be resolved through discussion.






Wikipedia page history showing a severe edit war[1]


An edit war ( listen (help·info)) occurs when editors who disagree about the content of a page repeatedly override each other's contributions. Editors engaged in a dispute should reach consensus or pursue dispute resolution rather than edit warring. Edit warring is unconstructive and creates animosity between editors, making consensus harder to reach. Users who engage in edit wars risk being blocked or even banned. An editor who repeatedly restores his or her preferred version is edit warring, regardless of whether their edits were justifiable: "but my edits were right, so it wasn't edit warring" is no defense.
There is a bright line known as the three-revert rule (3RR). To revert is to undo the action of another editor. The 3RR says an editor must not perform more than three reverts, in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material, on a single page within a 24-hour period. Any appearance of gaming the system by reverting a fourth time just outside of the 24-hour slot may also be considered edit warring. There are certain exemptions to 3RR, such as reverting vandalism or clear violations of the Biographies of living persons policy; see below for details. The three-revert rule is a convenient limit for occasions when an edit war is happening fairly quickly, but it is not a definition of "edit warring", and it is perfectly possible to edit war without breaking the three-revert rule, or even coming close to doing so.



Contents


1 What edit warring is

1.1 The three-revert rule
1.2 Exemptions
1.3 Other revert rules


2 Handling of edit-warring behaviors

2.1 What to do if you see edit-warring behavior
2.2 How experienced editors avoid becoming involved in edit wars


3 Administrator guidance
4 See also
5 References
6 Further reading



What edit warring is


Conduct policies




Block evasion
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
Non-discrimination policy
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry
Username policy
Vandalism







v
t
e





See also: Wikipedia:Editing policy
Wikipedia encourages editors to be bold, but while a potentially controversial change may be made to find out whether it is opposed, another editor may revert it. This may be the beginning of a bold, revert, discuss (BRD) cycle. An edit war only arises if the situation develops into a series of back-and-forth reverts. Nevertheless, not every revert or controversial edit is regarded as edit warring:

Reverting vandalism is not edit warring. However, edits from a slanted point of view, general insertion or removal of material, or other good-faith changes are not considered vandalism. See Wikipedia:Vandalism § Types of vandalism and Wikipedia:Vandalism § What is not vandalism.
Reverting to enforce certain overriding policies is not considered edit warring. For example, under the policy on biographies of living persons, where negative unsourced content is being introduced, the risk of harm is such that removal is required.
Reverting edits by banned or blocked users is not edit warring.
Reverting edits in one's own user page is rarely edit warring. Traditionally, Wikipedia offers wide latitude to users to manage their user space as they see fit. For more information, see Wikipedia:User pages § Ownership and editing of user pages.

When reverting, be sure to indicate your reasons. This can be done in the edit summary and/or talk page. Anti-vandalism tools such as Twinkle, Huggle and rollback should not be used to undo good-faith changes in content disputes without an appropriate edit summary.
The three-revert rule
Policy shortcuts:


WP:3RR
WP:4RR




Editors who engage in edit warring are liable to be blocked from editing to prevent further disruption. While any edit warring may lead to sanctions, there is a bright-line rule called the three-revert rule (3RR), the violation of which often leads to a block.
The three-revert rule states:

An editor must not perform more than three reverts on a single page—whether involving the same or different material—within a 24-hour period. An edit or a series of consecutive edits that undoes other editors' actions—whether in whole or in part—counts as a revert. Violations of the rule often attract blocks of at least 24 hours. Fourth reverts just outside the 24-hour period may also be taken as evidence of edit-warring, especially if repeated or combined with other edit-warring behavior. See below for exemptions.

A "page" means any page on Wikipedia, including talk and project space. A "revert" means any edit (or administrative action) that reverses the actions of other editors, in whole or in part, whether involving the same or different material. A series of consecutive saved revert edits by one user with no intervening edits by another user counts as one revert.
The three-revert rule applies per person, not per account; reverts made by multiple accounts operated by one editor count together. Editors violating 3RR will usually be blocked for 24 hours for a first incident.  Even without a 3RR violation, an administrator may still act if they believe a user's behavior constitutes edit warring, and any user may report edit warring with or without 3RR being breached. The rule is not an entitlement to revert a page a specific number of times.
If an editor violates 3RR by mistake, they should reverse their own most recent reversion. Administrators may take this into account and decide not to block in such cases—for example if the user is not a habitual edit warrior and is genuinely trying to rectify their own mistake.
Exemptions
Policy shortcuts:


WP:3RRNO
WP:NOT3RR
WP:3RRBLP




The following reverts are exempt from the edit-warring policy:

Reverting your own actions ("self-reverting").
Reverting edits to pages in your own user space, so long as you are respecting the user page guidelines.
Reverting actions performed by banned users in violation of their ban, and sockpuppets of banned or blocked users.
Reverting obvious vandalism—edits that any well-intentioned user would agree constitute vandalism, such as page blanking and adding offensive language.
Removal of clear copyright violations or content that unquestionably violates the non-free content policy (NFCC). What counts as exempt under NFCC can be controversial, and should be established as a violation first. Consider reporting to the Wikipedia:Files for discussion noticeboard instead of relying on this exemption.
Removal of other content that is clearly illegal under US law, such as child pornography and links to pirated software.
Removing violations of the biographies of living persons (BLP) policy that contain libelous, biased, unsourced, or poorly sourced contentious material. What counts as exempt under BLP can be controversial. Consider reporting to the BLP noticeboard instead of relying on this exemption.

Considerable leeway is also given to editors reverting to maintain the quality of a featured article while it appears on the main page.
If you are claiming an exemption, make sure there is a clearly visible edit summary or separate section of the talk page that explains the exemption. When in doubt, do not revert. Instead, engage in dispute resolution, and in particular ask for help at relevant noticeboards such as the Edit war/3RR noticeboard.
Other revert rules
Policy shortcuts:


WP:0RR
WP:1RR



Additional restrictions on reverting may be imposed by ArbCom, under administrator enforcement, or by the community (see Editing restrictions and General sanctions). These restrictions are generally called 1RR (one-revert rule) or 0RR (zero-revert rule).
The one-revert rule is analogous to the three-revert rule as described above, with the words "more than three reverts" replaced by "more than one revert". Often there is also a requirement to discuss each of the reversions on the talk page, and sometimes the phrase "24-hour period" is replaced by some other time period, such as "one week" or "one month". The rule may be applied to either pages or editors.
The zero-revert rule means a complete prohibition on reverts (as defined for the purpose of the three-revert rule) and is imposed on editors.
Editors may also voluntarily agree to abide by a stricter reverting standard such as 1RR or 0RR, either in response to problems in a particular area, or as a general editing philosophy. For more details, see Wikipedia:Revert only when necessary.
Handling of edit-warring behaviors
What to do if you see edit-warring behavior




If an edit war develops, participants should try to discuss the issue on the talk page and work things out.


It is better to seek help in addressing the issue than to engage in edit warring. When disagreement becomes apparent, one, both, or all participants should cease warring and discuss the issue on the talk page, or seek help at appropriate venues. Other alternative approaches recommended within the community are suggested below.
If, despite trying, one or more users fail to cease edit warring, refuse to work collaboratively or heed the information given to them, or do not move on to appropriate dispute resolution, then a request for administrative involvement via a report at the Edit war/3RR noticeboard is the norm. A warning is not required, but if the user appears unaware that edit warring is prohibited, they can be told about this policy by posting a {{uw-3rr}} template message on their user talk page. Avoid posting a generic warning template if actively involved in the edit war; it can be seen as aggressive. Consider writing your own note to the user specifically appropriate for the situation, with a view to explicitly cooling things down.
How experienced editors avoid becoming involved in edit wars 



This section in a nutshell: Communication is the key to avoiding conflict. Follow Wikipedia:Editing policy § Talking and editing.

Shortcut:

WP:AVOIDEDITWAR





Once it is clear there is a dispute, avoid relying solely on edit summaries and discuss the matter on the article's talk page, which is where a reviewing admin will look for evidence of trying to settle the dispute. It may help to remember that there is no deadline and that editors can add appropriate cleanup tags to problematic sections under current discussion. When discussion does not produce a conclusion, bringing wider attention to a dispute can lead to compromise. Consider getting a third opinion or starting a request for comments. Neutral editors aware of the dispute will help curb egregious edits while also building consensus about the dispute. If these methods fail, seek informal and formal dispute resolution.
Some experienced editors deliberately adopt a policy of only reverting edits covered by the exceptions listed above, or limiting themselves to a single revert; if there is further dispute, they seek dialog or outside help rather than make the problem worse, i.e., they revert only when necessary. This policy may be particularly appropriate for controversial topics where views are polarized and emotions run high, resulting in more frequent edit warring.
The bottom line: use common sense, and do not participate in edit wars. Rather than reverting repeatedly, discuss the matter with others; if a revert is necessary, another editor may conclude the same and do it (without you prompting them), which would then demonstrate consensus for the action. Request page protection rather than becoming part of the dispute by reverting.
Administrator guidance
Administrators decide whether to issue a warning or block; these are intended to prevent, deter and encourage change in disruptive behavior, not to punish it. Where a block is appropriate, 24 hours is common for a first offense; administrators tend to issue longer blocks for repeated or aggravated violations, and will consider other factors, such as civility and previous blocks. Where multiple editors edit war or breach 3RR, administrators should consider all sides, since perceived unfairness can fuel issues. According to WP:Administrators, "Administrators should not use their tools to advantage, or in a content dispute (or article) where they are a party (or significant editor), or where a significant conflict of interest is likely to exist."
See also


Wikipedia:Administrators' noticeboard/Edit warring
Wikipedia:Arguments to avoid in edit wars
Wikipedia:BOLD, revert, discuss cycle
Wikipedia:Consensus
Wikipedia:Dispute resolution
Wikipedia:Disruptive editing
Wikipedia:Etiquette
Wikipedia:Lamest edit wars
Wikipedia:Ownership of articles
Wikipedia:Page-move war
Help:Reverting (how-to)

Wikipedia:Three-revert rule (policy)
Wikipedia:Reverting (essay)
Wikipedia:Alternatives to reversion (essay)
Wikipedia:Baby and bathwater (essay)
Wikipedia:Revert only when necessary (essay)


Wikipedia:Sock puppetry
Help:Talkspace draft
Wikipedia:Tendentious editing


References

^ "Portal:Pope/Intro: Revision history". wikipedia.org. 

Further reading

Yasseri T, Sumi R, Rung A, Kornai A, Kertész J (2012) Dynamics of Conflicts in Wikipedia. PLoS ONE 7(6): e38869. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0038869







v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Edit_warring&oldid=762397469"					
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia:Edit warringHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Meta-WikiWikivoyage 



Languages


العربيةঅসমীয়াAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাБългарскиDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaÍslenskaItalianoעבריתქართულიKiswahiliLietuviųMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語Norsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsРусскийSámegiellaShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaТатарча/tatarçaไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語Zazaki中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 28 January 2017, at 15:34.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.236","walltime":"0.328","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1514,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":62816,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":4892,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":11,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  235.506      1 -total"," 22.84%   53.787      1 Template:Pp-protect"," 13.40%   31.549      1 Template:Cite_web"," 12.19%   28.712      1 Template:Wikipedia_policies_and_guidelines"," 11.61%   27.335      1 Template:Policy"," 11.55%   27.201      3 Template:Policy_shortcut"," 10.71%   25.217      1 Template:Navbox"," 10.67%   25.139      1 Template:Ombox","  9.48%   22.320      3 Template:Bulleted_list","  5.89%   13.876     13 Template:Anchor"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.091","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":4089538,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1238","timestamp":"20170203230643","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":62,"wgHostname":"mw1271"});});
