 







Help:Page history

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search






Shortcuts:

WP:PAGE
H:PH
WP:PAGEHIST


If you are looking for information about historical events or other things that happened in the real world, you are on the wrong page!
To get help finding factual information about people, places, things, or events, leave a message at Wikipedia:Reference desk. To get help finding out how to use Wikipedia, leave a note at Wikipedia:Help desk. This help page is exclusively dedicated to learning how to use a special type of Wikipedia page, called a history page, that shows the usernames and dates associated with changing the words in each encyclopedia article.




Play media


10 minute video introduction to the View History feature.


A page history shows the order in which changes were made to any editable Wikipedia page, the difference between any two versions, and a menu of special external tools. A page history is sometimes called revision history or edit history. It is accessed by clicking the "View history" tab at the top of the page.
The page history contains a list of the page's previous revisions, including the date and time (in UTC) of each edit, the username or IP address of the user who made it, and their edit summary. For example, the page history for this help page shows that it was first created on September 20, 2004, and that it has been changed more than 500 times during the last ten years.



Contents


1 Using a history page

1.1 Overview
1.2 Searching and exporting histories
1.3 Web feeds


2 Related issues

2.1 Moved and deleted pages
2.2 Image histories
2.3 Linking to a specific version of a page
2.4 Copyright status of old page revisions


3 Notes
4 See also



Using a history page
Overview
On a history page:

All past changes to the page in question are listed in reverse-chronological order.
To view a specific version, click a date.
To compare an old version with the current version, go to the old version, click cur.
To compare a version with its predecessor, click prev.
To compare two specific versions, click the left-column radio button of the older version and the right-column radio button of the newer version, and then click the "Compare selected versions" button.
To undo (revert) your own or someone else's edit, click the "undo" link. See Wikipedia:Undo for more information.

Below is a detailed example of a page history using the default skin:

Edits are shown from newest to oldest. Each edit takes up one line which shows; time & date, the contributor's username or IP address and the edit summary, as well as other diagnostic information. Let's look at some of the functions of this page:

The "View history" tab is highlighted and "Revision history" is appended to the page name. Notice that you can't make wikilinks to this extended page name – to make a link to the history page, copy the URL from the browser address bar when viewing the history page, and paste it between single square brackets (external link format) to make the link. {{History}} can also be used.
The year and month fields allow a quick jump when the page has many revisions. After entering a year and/or selecting a month, click the "Go" button to the right.
The "Tag filter" restricts the display to show only those edits that have been tagged by an edit filter. For example, "references removed" may be entered here. After entering a tag name, click the "Go" button to the right.
The "Deleted only" checkbox is only shown to administrators and others with the deletedhistory user right. It displays RevisionDeleted edits.
A line of links to external tools.[note 1] The available tools vary between wikis. The line is made by MediaWiki:Histlegend which can be edited by administrators.
These links take you to the most recent edits (latest), oldest edits (earliest) or the next or previous page of edits (newer n / older n). Note that the black text in brackets will become links, when applicable.
The blue numbers list the number of edits displayed on a page - 20, 50, 100, 250 or 500. A higher number increases the length of a page but reduces the number of pages. The number you select replaces n in the links to the previous or next pages e.g. (newer 100 / older 100).
(cur) takes you to a diff page, showing the difference between that edit and the current version. The current revision appears below the changes, so you can see how the page is now rendered.
(prev) takes you to a diff page showing the changes between that edit and the previous version. The most recent version (the one on the same line as the "prev" you clicked on) appears below the changes, so you can see how the page was rendered.
The two columns of radio buttons can be used to select any two versions on the page. The current selection is marked by a special background. The two most recent versions are selected by default when you first view the history (that is why they appear framed and have a different background, see horizontal area below 4). Let's say you want to compare the versions corresponding to numbers 10 & 11 on the image. First, click the left radio button next to number 11. The right column of buttons will then fill as far as number 11. Then click the right button next to number 10. Finally click Compare selected versions. This takes you to a diff page showing the changes between the two versions. The most recent version (in this case number 10) appears below the changes, so you can see how the page was rendered.
This gives the time and date of the edit. The time is UTC by default at the English Wikipedia. Registered users can choose date format and time zone at Special:Preferences#mw-prefsection-rendering. The date and time contains a link to that version of the page. Thus the first line links to the version that was current at the time of loading this revision history, and therefore the result may differ from that of following the link on the page margin to the current version. Even if the page has not changed in the meantime, the message with id 'Revision-info' (talk) appears.
The username or IP of the contributor appears here.
m stands for minor edit.
The size of the page in bytes (roughly corresponding to characters)
The difference in size between this revision and the previous revision. A green number with a plus sign (+1,864) indicates that the edit added this number of bytes (roughly corresponding to characters) to the page, while a red number with a minus sign (-29) indicates removal. See more at Wikipedia:Added or removed characters.
This is the edit summary. It is the text the user wrote in the edit summary box (below the edit box).
This edit summary begins with an arrow link and grey text. This means the user has only edited a section of the page (named in the grey text). This text is automatically added when you edit a section. The arrow links to that section of the current version of the page, and not the version where the arrow was clicked. A standard edit summary can be added by the user. This appears in black text.

Not shown in this example: some edits may be automatically tagged by the abuse filter (example: (Tag: references removed)); any tags applied appear after the edit summary. Tags cannot be added or removed manually, and are intended to help editors identify potential problem edits for examination; they do not prove that an edit is problematic.
Also not shown in this example: you can thank a user for their edit by clicking the Thank button. see Wikipedia:Notifications/Thanks.
It is possible to restore an old version of a page by following the link to that version, clicking "edit" and then saving. This should be done with caution, as it means that all changes made to the page since the time of that version will be lost.
In rare cases, all or part of a page history entry may be shown in grey, struck out by a horizontal line. This indicates that information has been hidden from public view by an administrator or bureaucrat. See Revision deletion and Oversight for more on this.
Searching and exporting histories
The history page contains a link "Revision history search". This links to Wikiblame, a tool for searching the entire history of a given page.
Another useful tool is the Special:Export page, which is used to produce an XML file with the wikitext of the current and (optionally) all old versions of one or more specified pages, with date, time, user name, and edit summary. How the XML file is displayed depends on the browser (it can also be saved locally for later searching and analysis). For more information on this feature, see Help:Export.
The following may also be useful:

http://tools.wikimedia.de/~daniel/WikiSense/Contributors.php – a tool to sort the page history by editor and count the number of edits for each editor (works for most Wikimedia sites; can also be downloaded for adaptation to other MediaWiki sites).
Wikipedia:Usemod article histories – information on retrieving page histories from before January 2002.

Some page histories (such as User talk:Jimbo Wales) are very long, so that paging back even 500 results at a time cannot practically reach a date from several years ago. It is possible to simply change the date (YYYYMMDD) in the URL in these cases ( http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=User_talk:Jimbo_Wales&offset=20061215142129&action=history, for example) to get a listing of results going back from that date.
Web feeds
A link to an Atom web feed for the history of a page is available from the lefthand Toolbox. This gives the diffs of the last 10 edits, each with a link to the ordinary, full diff page. Depending on the browser there may be possibilities such as sorting by author.
An RSS version of the feed can be obtained by assigning to "feed" (one of the parameters to index.php available for a history pagehttp://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Parameters_to_index.php#History) the value "rss", i.e., by replacing "&feed=atom" with "&feed=rss" in the Atom feed link.
Related issues
Moved and deleted pages
When a page is moved (renamed), the entire edit history of the article, before and after the move, is shown. The old title becomes a redirect and loses its edit history.
To view a history of only moves and no other edits, go to special:log/move and input the name of the article in the "target" field.
If instead of a move, the entire content was cut and pasted into a new substitute article, the page history gets spread across two articles. The histories can be merged in this case.
When two pages are merged, typically one becomes a redirect. In this case the revision history of the redirect is kept.
When a page is deleted, its revision history remains in the database and can be retrieved by an administrator, who can also undelete the page (see Wikipedia:Viewing and restoring deleted pages).
Administrators can also remove selected revisions from a page history, for example if they contain defamatory text. For details, see Selective deletion.
Image histories
An "image" (in the broad sense of an uploaded file) can be edited, or, more generally, be replaced by a different image, by uploading a new image file with the same name. Again all versions are kept. The image history listing forms part of the image description page, which appears when clicking on the image. The image history consists of this and the old versions themselves.
Images which have been deleted from their source are not available to non-administrators (not to be confused with images removed from an article but not from their source), so the only record available is the upload log, deletion log and possibly the "votes for deletion" archive. Only administrators can restore a deleted image without uploading it again.
Linking to a specific version of a page
It is sometimes useful to link to a specific version of an article - this is called a "permanent link". For example, one might have done a review of a Wikipedia article and want to indicate which particular version was reviewed.




Getting a link to an older revision of a page


A permanent link to the current version of an article is normally available from the sidebar, under Toolbox -> Permanent link. For other namespaces, or if the version to be linked to is not the current version, use the page's History tab to navigate to the specific version required. The URL here will be suitable for use to permanently reference this version, and can usually be obtained from the browser's location bar. (See also URLs of Wikipedia pages.) To make a permalink for use within the English Wikipedia, use Template:Oldid2.
A permalink does not necessarily reproduce the historical version of the page as it originally appeared. This is because images, templates (transcluded text and images), and time-based variables (such as CURRENTTIME) may have changed in the interim; they appear in their current state, not their historical state. Only the on-page text of the article (the wikitext that one sees when clicking 'Edit') is preserved perfectly.
It is possible to capture a visual snapshot of the current version of a page by making a web mirror: Copy the HTML file of the page, along with any auxiliary files, such as Cascading Style Sheets and image files. Help:Downloading pages lists other ways to preserve a page.
Copyright status of old page revisions
Wikipedia does not give legal advice.
Those wishing to make use of historical versions of articles should be aware that some of the history may be problematic.
As noted at the end of each history revision, in the text at MediaWiki:history copyright, the page histories may contain material that is incompatible with our license. Although all contributions are supposed to be compatible with CC BY-SA (except limited, clearly marked fair use material in accordance with our non-free content policy), it is possible that a user has inserted something to which they did not have rights to license or which exceeds fair use. The Wikipedia volunteer community has a general policy of removing such copyright problems from publication when they are discovered (see copyright problems), but does not have a general policy of always deleting all such material from the history, particularly if the edit is made to an existing article rather than a new one. In the event of a DMCA takedown notice, the Wikimedia Foundation may remove violating versions from the page history. In other cases, the version may be kept to allow proper tracking of authors and demonstrate compliance with all legal requirements. As the Wikimedia Foundation is a not-for-profit company, the volunteer community believes this to be fair use. However, not all versions in a page history are necessarily available under the CC BY-SA.
Notes


^ Shown in the screenshot, above, are:

Revision history statistics (includes a screen displaying a list of people who have edited the page, from most contributions made to least),
Revision history search (Wikiblame, allows you to find the person who wrote a given passage of text),
Edits by user (find all the edits a particular user made to the page),
Number of watchers (how many people have the page on their watchlist),
Page view statistics (gives a rough estimate at how many people accessed the page within the last 30, 60, or 90 days).

These are external links to sites that host the tools off-site, such as Toolserver or the newer Labs.


See also



This page is referenced from the glossary.




Template:Oldid2, link to an old version of a page
Template:Cross-wiki language oldid, link to an old version of a page in Wikibooks, Wikinews, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikiversity, or Wiktionary in any language
Template:Cross-wiki oldid, link to an old version of a page in MediaWiki, Meta-Wiki, Wikibooks, Wikimedia Foundation, Wikimedia Incubator, Wikinews, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikiversity, or Wiktionary
Help:Diff
Help:User contributions
Wikipedia:Vandalism, on how to deal with unwanted contributions
Watch this video "Using the "view history" tab on Wikipedia" instructional video by Pete Forsyth from a WP course
Wiki RePlay: A javascript tool to visualize diff's in Wikipedia. Enter the name of the page in the "page". There is a slider showing the revisions, click on one of the bars in the zoomed in version of the revisions to start the playback







v
t
e


Wikipedia technical help







Get personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.






General technical
help



Multilingual support
Special Characters

Entering


Browser notes

Troubleshooting
Bypass cache


Mobile access
Printing
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing

Edit toolbar
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Reverting


VisualEditor

User guide


User access levels
Software notices

Editnotice


IRC

Tutorial


Create a page
Page history
Page information
Page name

Introduction










Special page related



Special page help
Searching

Advanced search
Linksearch


Logging in

Reset passwords


Notifications/Echo

FAQ


Moving a page

Fixing cut-and-paste moves


Watching pages
User contributions
Emailing users
Random pages
Logs
What links here
Related changes
Recent changes
Pending changes
Page Curation
Page import
Edit filter
Tags








Wiki markup



Wiki markup main page

Cheatsheet


Colours use
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words

For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function


Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables

Introduction
Basics
Conditional tables
Sorting
Collapsing
Advanced table formatting










Links and diffs



URLs
Links
Permanent link
Interwikimedia links
Interlanguage links
Link color
Pipe trick
Colon trick
Magic links
Diffs

Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide










Media files: images,
videos and sounds



Media help
Options to hide an image
Uploading images

Introduction


Files

Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons


Visual file markup
Images

Preparing images for upload
Picture tutorial
Extended image syntax


Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials

Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality


Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
SVG help








Other graphics



Family trees
Graphs and charts

How to create
To scale charts
Barcharts


Math formula

Math symbols
Rendering math
LaTeX symbols


Musical scores

Musical symbols


Timeline

EasyTimeline syntax


WikiHiero syntax








Templates
and Lua modules



Templates
Template messages
Citation templates
Transclusion

Labeled section


Substitution
Advanced template coding
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Template documentation
Purge
Lua help
Lua project

To do
Resources


Guide to Scribbling








Data structure



Namespaces
Main/Article
Talk namespaces

Archiving


User

User page design


Project/Wikipedia
File

File pages


MediaWiki

Bug reports and feature requests
System message


Template
Help
Category
Portal
Book
Draft
Education Program
TimedText
Module/Lua
Topic/Flow
Special
Media








HTML and CSS



HTML in wikitext
Markup validation
Span tags
Cascading Style Sheets
Catalogue of CSS classes
Useful styles
Classes used in microformats
Ambox classes
Common.js and common.css








Customisation and tools



Preferences
Skins
Customizing watchlists

Hide pages


Gadgets
Beta Features
User scripts

Guide
Techniques


IRC Scripts
User styles
Tools

Navigation shortcuts
Browser tools
Alternative browsing
Editing tools
Optimum tool set


Cleaning up vandalism tools
Citation tools
Wikimedia Labs








Automating editing



Bots

Creating


Twinkle
FurMe
NPWatcher
HotCat
WPCleaner
igloo
AutoWikiBrowser
Navigation popups
STiki
AfC helper script
Huggle








Relevant navigation



Help pages

Administrators


Templates
Referencing

Citation metadata


Accessibility
Bots
User scripts










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Help:Page_history&oldid=761372344"					
Categories: Wikipedia glossary itemsWikipedia interface helpWikipedia page history helpWikipedia page historyHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Help page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Meta-WikiWikivoyage 



Languages


AlemannischÆngliscالعربيةঅসমীয়াবাংলাCatalàČeštinaCymraegDeutschEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어ՀայերենHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaInterlinguaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaქართულიҚазақшаMagyarMaltiमराठीBahasa Melayuမြန်မာဘာသာNederlands日本語НохчийнNorsk bokmålOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСаха тылаසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்ไทยTürkçeاردوVènetoTiếng Việtייִדיש中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 22 January 2017, at 16:50.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.112","walltime":"0.178","ppvisitednodes":{"value":473,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":52684,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":1475,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":6,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  108.396      1 -total"," 37.07%   40.181      1 Template:Info"," 34.63%   37.537      1 Template:Mbox"," 34.19%   37.059      1 Template:Pp-semi-protected"," 15.80%   17.124      1 Template:Wikipedia_technical_help"," 13.89%   15.058      1 Template:Navbox","  5.17%    5.600      1 Template:See_also","  5.06%    5.486      1 Template:Shortcut","  3.66%    3.962      1 Template:Wikipedia_glossary","  2.66%    2.884      1 Template:Side_box"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.038","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1740685,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1238","timestamp":"20170204154154","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":63,"wgHostname":"mw1215"});});
