 






Wikipedia:Rough guide to semi-protection

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

For the guideline to evaluate rough consensus, see WP:ROUGH CONSENSUS.

Shortcut:

WP:ROUGH





This information page describes the editing community's consensus on some aspect or aspects of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines.


< Wikipedia:Protection policy | semi-protection
The official policy related to applying and removing semi-protection is located at Wikipedia:Protection policy § Semi-protection. This rough guide describes how the semi-protection policy is currently being applied by administrators.
Note: Every case is different. Even if a page matches each of the § General considerations and § Criteria for semi-protection, it does not mean that page must be protected. Administrators may use their discretion on a case-by-case basis.
General considerations[edit]
Both an editor considering requesting semi-protection for a page at Wikipedia:Requests for page protection (WP:RFPP) and an administrator considering applying semi-protection must assess each situation individually before deciding on a course of action.

Is the problem vandalism or an editing dispute?
How much vandalism is taking place?
Is the vandalism from a wide range of user accounts/IP users?
Are any constructive edits being made to the page, especially from unregistered users?
Is the problem on a high-profile, widely watchlisted page?
Does the problem have a detrimental effect on how Wikipedia looks to the public?
Is the subject of the page a living person?
What is the quality of this article? Higher-quality articles are more damaged by vandalism than similar low-quality articles, and there is also less likelihood that a given edit will improve the article. In addition, since higher-quality articles are bigger, there is less likelihood that the article will be edited.

Criteria for semi-protection[edit]
Articles subject to heavy and continued vandalism can be semi-protected. There are no explicit rules that determine the level of vandalism that is necessary to trigger semi-protection. Administrators should use their best judgment to determine if semi-protection is warranted. Here are some criteria that may be helpful to determine if semi-protection is appropriate:

All or almost all of the vandalism is coming from unregistered users.
Unregistered editors should be making very few quality contributions to the article compared to the amount of vandalism coming from unregistered editors. The negative effects of semi-protection on discouraging positive contributions should be more of a concern than the positive effect of decreasing vandalism.
There are regularly many new vandals, therefore it would be a huge unending task to notify and warn all the vandals individually.
According to Wikipedia:WikiProject Vandalism studies/Study1 § Conclusions, on average 5% of edits to a page are vandalism. So, 5% is the level of vandalism to be expected, and semi-protection should not be applied in this case. More than usual levels of vandalism occur when anything over 5% of edits constitute vandalism. If each vandal edit was followed by a revert, without any further edits to the page, then 50% of edits would be vandalism. More than 50% is rare, but may occur when multiple vandalism edits are reverted by a single edit. The higher the percentage of vandal edits, the greater the need for protection.
Consider a lower threshold for protection for articles on living people as vandalism is potentially more damaging in these cases.

Determining the duration for semi-protection[edit]
If semi-protection is to be tried, its first application should be for a short duration, a few hours, a few days or a week depending on the type of page being protected and the level of disruption. If vandalism continues after the protection expires it can be added for a longer duration. At some point an administrator might determine that the semi-protection should be made indefinite. This is reserved for only the most vandalized articles, and any administrator is free to lift 'indefinite' protections.

Pages that are indefinitely semi-protected must have been semi-protected previously. This shows that the problem is ongoing, and that temporary semi-protection does not have a lasting effect.
Vandalism that resumes very shortly after semi-protection is removed demonstrates that the page is a popular target for random vandalism. Such pages are likely candidates for indefinite semi-protection.
If vandalism is related to a current event, the semi-protection should be lifted after the event is out of the public eye.
The only way to determine if ongoing semi-protection is still necessary is to remove the protection and see if the vandalism resumes at previous levels. For this reason, all pages that are indefinitely semi-protected can have their protection removed from time to time. The administrator should monitor the page after removing the protection.







v
t
e


Wikipedia community







For a listing of current collaborations, tasks, and news, see the Community portal.
For a listing of ongoing discussions and current requests, see the Dashboard.






About Wikipedia



Welcome!
Administration
Task Center
Regional notice boards
News

The Signpost
Goings-on
In the media


Meetups
Mailing lists
Awards

Reward board
Contests


Wikipedians
Statistics

Milestones


The Wikipedia Library
Centralized discussion
Village pump

Idea lab
Policy
Proposals
Technical
Miscellaneous










Contents and grading



Requested articles
Most-wanted articles
Images needing articles
Articles needing images
Articles for creation

Creation
Help


Vital articles
Today's articles for improvement
Peer review
Good article nominations
Featured article candidates

Lists
Pictures
Portals
Topics


Article translation

Pages


Main Page

Errors










WikiProjects and groups



Directory
Culture and the arts
Geographical
History and society
Science, technology and engineering
Wikipedia assistance and tasks
Patrols

Recent changes


Counter-Vandalism Unit
Version 1.0 Editorial Team
Accessibility








Maintenance tasks



Open tasks
Cleanup

Vandalism


Database reports
'As of'
Page Curation
Recent changes
Backlog
Controversial issues
Dusty articles








Administrators
and noticeboards



Admin dashboard
Admin requests
Administrators'

Incidents
Edit warring
Vandalism


Requests for closure
Revision deletion
Oversight

Request


Page protection
Sockpuppets
User permissions
Open proxies
Usernames

Changing
Title blacklist


OTRS
Bureaucrats'

Requests for adminship & bureaucratship


Arbitration Committee

Requests
Enforcement










Content dispute
resolution



Editor assistance
Requests for comment
Third opinion
Dispute resolution noticeboard

Biographies of living persons
Conflict of interest
External links
Fringe theories
Neutral point of view
No original research
Reliable sources


Mediation








Other noticeboards
and assistance



Requests for help
Asking questions

Teahouse
Help desk
Reference desk
Adopt-a-user
Online Ambassadors


Copyright assistance

Copyright investigations
Text problems
Media questions


Paid editors
Resource requests
Mergers

History mergers


Moves

Page importation


Spam

Blacklist
Whitelist


Bot owners'
Education

Incidents


New pages patrol
General sanctions
Editor sanctions
Long-term abuse








Deletion
discussions



Guide

Admin


Today
Articles
Templates
Files
Categories
Redirects
Miscellany
Speedy
Proposed

BLP
Books


Review

Undeletion


Arguments to avoid
Arguments to make
Article Rescue








Elections and votings



Requests for comment (meta)
Wikimedia Foundation elections
WP Democracy

Voting is not evil
Milestones










Directories
and summaries



Departments
Edit summary legend
Editor's index
Essays
FAQs
Glossary

Abbreviations


Help
Manual of Style

Simplified


Rules

Five pillars
Policies
Guidelines


Shortcuts
Template messages

Citation templates


Tips

Today


Tools
Wikis
Wiki markup









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Rough_guide_to_semi-protection&oldid=760713137"					
Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia page protection 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



Languages


Deutschفارسی 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 18 January 2017, at 17:23.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.072","walltime":"0.102","ppvisitednodes":{"value":220,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":45545,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":0,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":6,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":0,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%   61.125      1 -total"," 39.55%   24.177      1 Template:Information_page"," 34.14%   20.871      1 Template:For"," 30.31%   18.529      1 Template:Ombox"," 17.37%   10.618      1 Template:Wikipedia_community"," 14.13%    8.637      1 Template:Navbox","  8.55%    5.225      1 Template:Shortcut","  6.15%    3.759      1 Template:Namespace_detect"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.022","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1473851,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1240","timestamp":"20170212003221","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":70,"wgHostname":"mw1213"});});
