 






Wikipedia:Pending changes

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"WP:PC" redirects here. For establishing context in articles, see WP:PCR. For press coverage, see WP:PRESS. For the Pokémon Collaborative, see Wikipedia:WikiProject Pokémon. For the Page Curation tool, see WP:PAGCUR.
"WP:PEND" redirects here. For pending AFC submissions, see CAT:PEND.
For a list of articles with pending changes needing review, see Special:PendingChanges.



This information page describes the editing community's consensus on some aspect or aspects of Wikipedia's norms and practices. It is not one of Wikipedia's policies or guidelines.


Shortcuts:

WP:PC
WP:FLP
WP:PEND





Pending changes protection is a tool used to suppress vandalism and certain other recurrent nuisances on Wikipedia while allowing a good-faith user to submit an edit for review. Intended for infrequently edited articles that are experiencing high levels of such troublesome edits from new or unregistered users, pending changes protection can be used as an alternative to semi-protection and full protection to allow unregistered and new users to edit pages, while keeping the edits hidden to most readers until they are accepted by a reviewer. There are relatively few articles on Wikipedia with this type of protection.
When a page under pending changes protection is edited by an unregistered (also called IP) editor or a new user, the edit is not directly visible to the majority of Wikipedia readers, until it is reviewed and accepted by an editor with the reviewer right.
Pending changes are visible in the page history, where they are marked as pending review. The latest accepted revision is displayed to the general public, while logged-in users see the latest revision of the page, with all changes applied. When editors who are not reviewers make changes to an article with unreviewed pending changes, their edits are also marked as pending and are not visible to most readers.
Both logged-in users and anonymous users who click the "edit this page" tab edit the latest version as usual. If there are pending changes awaiting review, there will be a dropdown box next to the article title, pointing to the pending changes.
Pending changes may be used to protect articles against persistent vandalism, violations of the biographies of living persons policy, and copyright violations.



Contents


1 Applying pending changes protection
2 Reviewing pending edits
3 Effect of various protection levels
4 Frequently asked questions
5 Timeline
6 See also

6.1 Interface
6.2 Logs





Applying pending changes protection[edit]



For the policy on applying pending changes protection, see Wikipedia:Protection policy#Pending changes protection. This section is intended to supplement or clarify the policy. If they disagree, please defer to the policy or discuss the option of changing it.


Administrators may apply pending changes protection to pages that are subject to heavy and persistent vandalism, violations of the biographies of living persons policy, or insertion of content that violates copyright. Pending changes protection should not be used as a preemptive measure against violations that have not yet occurred, nor should it be used to privilege registered users over unregistered users in content disputes. Pending changes protection should not be used on articles with a very high edit rate, even if they meet the aforementioned criteria. Instead semi-protection should be considered.
In addition, administrators may apply temporary pending changes protection on pages that are subject to significant but temporary vandalism or disruption (for example, due to media attention) when blocking individual users is not a feasible option. As with other forms of protection, the time frame of the protection should be proportional to the problem. Indefinite PC protection should only be used in cases of severe long-term disruption.
Like semi-protection, PC protection should never be used in genuine content disputes, where there is a risk of placing a particular group of editors at a disadvantage.
Editors without administrator privileges can request page protection if the above criteria are met. Removal of pending changes protection can be requested of any administrator, or at requests for unprotection.
Reviewing pending edits[edit]



For the guideline on reviewing edits, see Wikipedia:Reviewing pending changes. This section is intended to supplement or clarify the guideline. If they disagree, please defer to the guideline or discuss the option of changing it.


The process of reviewing is intended as a quick check to ensure edits don't contain vandalism, violations of the policy on living people, copyright violations, or other obviously inappropriate content. Reviewers are users sufficiently experienced who are granted the ability to accept other users' edits. Reviewers have a similar level of trust to rollbackers; all administrators have the reviewer right. Potential reviewers should recognize vandalism, be familiar with basic content policies such as the policy on living people, and have a reasonable level of experience editing Wikipedia. Reading the reviewing guideline, where the reviewing process and expectations for a reviewer are detailed, is recommended.
Acceptance of an edit by a reviewer is not an endorsement of the correctness of the edit. It merely indicates that the edit has been checked for obvious problems as listed above.
Reviewer rights are granted upon request at Wikipedia:Requests for permissions. While any administrator has the technical ability to remove the reviewer permission, removal should occur only as the result of consensus from a discussion or when an editor requests the removal of their own permission. Discussion regarding removal of the reviewer permission should normally occur at the Administrators' noticeboard. Discussion with the involved editor and/or a request for a second opinion at the Pending changes talk page is recommended before formally requesting removal.
Reviewing of pending changes should be resolved within reasonable time limits (at most a few hours). Backlog management should be coordinated at a community level. The backlog can be viewed at Special:PendingChanges. As of January 2013, edits are rarely unreviewed for more than two to three hours and the backlog is frequently empty.
Effect of various protection levels[edit]

Interaction of Wikipedia user groups and page protection levels

 
Unregistered or Newly registered
Auto-confirmed, Confirmed
Extended confirmed
Pending changes reviewer
Admin
Appropriate for
(See also: Wikipedia:Protection policy)


No protection
Normal editing (can edit; changes go live immediately)
"Go live" means the changes become visible to readers who are not logged in to Wikipedia. In all cases throughout this table, changes are immediately visible to readers who are logged in.
The vast majority of pages


Pending changes protection
can edit; changes go live after reviewer acceptance
Normal editing. (If there are previous pending changes, no changes will go live until the pending changes have been reviewed.)
*Normal editing;
can accept pending changes
Infrequently edited articles with high levels of vandalism or BLP violations from unregistered and new users


Semi-protection
cannot edit
Normal editing
Articles with high levels of vandalism or edit warring from unregistered and new users; some highly visible templates & modules


**Extended confirmed prot.
cannot edit
Normal editing
Specific topic areas authorized by Arbcom; pages subject to persistent disruption that semi-protection has failed to stop


Template prot.
cannot edit (unless Template editor, in which case Normal editing)
Normal editing
High-risk templates & modules


Full protection
cannot edit
Articles with persistent vandalism or edit warring from (auto)confirmed accounts; critical templates & modules


* When an Administrator or Pending Changes Reviewer edits an article that has pending changes awaiting review, they are prompted to review the pending changes before saving their edit.
** This row assumes that a Pending changes reviewer is also Extended confirmed. (A Pending changes reviewer needs separate Extended confirmed rights to edit through Extended confirmed protection; in practice nearly all Pending changes reviewers will have that additional right.)

view · talk · edit





Frequently asked questions[edit]

If an established user edits an article with unreviewed pending changes, is the new version automatically accepted?
No. If the user is a reviewer (that is, the user has been granted the "reviewer" permission), they will be prompted to review and accept any unreviewed pending changes. If the user is not a reviewer, the edit will also be marked as "pending review". (Reviewers can test this by unaccepting the current version of a page under pending changes and then trying to edit.) An exception to this is when a user reverts a pending edit to the latest accepted revision: in this case the revert is automatically accepted.
What happens if several IP edits to an article under pending changes result in a null edit? (For example, an IP makes an edit, then another IP undoes it.)
If they were all made by a single IP, the new version is automatically accepted. If different users edited, the new version is not accepted (to prevent potential abuse).
On which kinds of pages can pending changes be used?
At first, it was determined by consensus that pending changes could be used only on articles, subject to the protection policy, and on test pages in project space. A later request for comment found it permissible to use pending changes beyond articles; however, it is restricted by the software to the main and project namespaces, and no request to allow other namespaces was made. It is not technically possible for talk pages to be placed on pending changes.
Wasn't pending changes protection dropped?
Yes and no. Pending changes protection was deployed on a trial basis in 2010. In 2011, pending changes protection was dropped as a mechanism for protecting pages, until a consensus agreement on its deployment was reached. There have been a series of discussions on using the feature and it was put back into service on December 1, 2012. Since then only pending changes level 1, affecting the edits of new and unregistered users, is being used. The use of level 2 may be proposed for truly exceptional cases, but is rarely accepted.
How can you tell if a page has pending changes protection?
Protected pages are normally marked with a small white-colored or orange-colored padlock symbol in the top corner depending on its level of protection. Also, there will be a drop-down box next to the article title, pointing to the pending changes, if there are any.

Timeline[edit]

Shortcut:

WP:PCRFC


See also: Template:Pending changes discussions
Below is a list of past discussions and polls relating to the Pending Changes feature:

March 2009: First poll 4 to 1 approving original trial
May 2010: RFC on some pre-trial issues
June 2010 – August 2010: Pending changes trial
August 2010: Straw poll 2 to 1 in favor of continuing PC in some form
September 2010: Straw poll on interim usage
September 2010 – May 2011: Continuation of pending changes without clear mandate
February 2011 – May 2011: PC RfC 2011 Ended the original PC trial.
March 2012 – June 2012: PC RfC 2012 established consensus to enable PC before the end of 2012.

September 2012: WP:PC2012/RfC 1 discussed whether to use Level 2 pending changes.
October 2012: WP:PC2012/RfC 2 discussed when to apply pending changes, the criteria for rejecting edits, and various ideas for reducing backlog.
November 2012: WP:PC2012/RfC 3 discussed deployment and usage of the pending changes feature.


December 2012 – : Pending changes re-enabled on a permanent basis
May 2013: PC RfC 2013 is closed as requiring further discussion for implementation. It reopened the question of whether to use Level 2 pending changes.
January 2014: PC RFC 2014 opened to determine if there is consensus on how to implement pending changes level 2. By the time it was closed in June, there was no longer a consensus to use pending changes level 2 at all, but if and when such a consensus does develop, there is some consensus on when to apply it.
October 2016 DC RFC 2016 opened to determine if the edit filter, bots and ORES should be allowed to defer suspicious edits for review using deferred changes. The RfC passed in its entirety.
November 2016 PC RFC 2016 #1 opened to propose lowering the auto-accept threshold for PC2 and establish usage criteria.
November 2016 PC RFC 2016 #2 opened to propose several things, including implementing pending changes for all articles, implementing it for certain types of articles (including good articles, featured articles, vital articles, and biography of living persons articles), auto-granting the reviewer right for those meeting certain criteria, and creating a semi-automated tool for reviewing. The portion for creating a semi-automated review tool was withdrawn from the RfC as not needing consensus, and the RfC was later snow-closed with consensus against all remaining proposed changes.
January 2017 RFC to remove pending changes level 2, after all RFCs on the subject failed to achieve consensus for using it.

See also[edit]

Wikipedia:Flagged protection and patrolled revisions, the original trial proposal.
Wikipedia:Deferred changes, proposal to allow bots, the edit filter, and/or ORES to defer suspect edits for review (originally Wikipedia:Deferred revisions).
Wikipedia:Patrolled revisions, a request for a passive reviewing system, part of the original proposal.
Wikipedia:Pending changes blocks, proposal for a form of user specific editing restriction that is to a classic block what pending changes protection is to classic protection.
Wikipedia:PC2012, an overview of the 2012 implementation of pending changes.
Wikipedia:Pending changes caveats, an essay on why the use of pending changes was severely limited.

Interface[edit]

Special:PendingChanges, pages with pending edits.
Special:StablePages, pages under pending changes.
Special:ValidationStatistics, various statistics pertaining to the Pending Changes feature.
Template:Pending Changes backlog, a display of the current backlog, which can be added to user pages.

Logs[edit]

Special:Log/stable, actions to enable or disable pending changes.
Special:AdvancedReviewLog, actions to review edits.







v
t
e


Wikipedia technical help







Get personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.






General technical
help



Multilingual support
Special Characters

Entering


Browser notes

Troubleshooting
Bypass cache


Mobile access
Printing
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing

Edit toolbar
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Reverting


VisualEditor

User guide


User access levels
Software notices

Editnotice


IRC

Tutorial


Create a page
Page history
Page information
Page name

Introduction










Special page related



Special page help
Searching

Advanced search
Linksearch


Logging in

Reset passwords


Notifications/Echo

FAQ


Moving a page

Fixing cut-and-paste moves


Watching pages
User contributions
Emailing users
Random pages
Logs
What links here
Related changes
Recent changes
Pending changes
Page Curation
Page import
Edit filter
Tags








Wiki markup



Wiki markup main page

Cheatsheet


Colours use
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words

For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function


Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables

Introduction
Basics
Conditional tables
Sorting
Collapsing
Advanced table formatting










Links and diffs



URLs
Links
Permanent link
Interwikimedia links
Interlanguage links
Link color
Pipe trick
Colon trick
Magic links
Diffs

Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide










Media files: images,
videos and sounds



Media help
Options to hide an image
Uploading images

Introduction


Files

Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons


Visual file markup
Images

Preparing images for upload
Picture tutorial
Extended image syntax


Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials

Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality


Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
SVG help








Other graphics



Family trees
Graphs and charts

How to create
To scale charts
Barcharts


Math formula

Math symbols
Rendering math
LaTeX symbols


Musical scores

Musical symbols


Timeline

EasyTimeline syntax


WikiHiero syntax








Templates
and Lua modules



Templates
Template messages
Citation templates
Transclusion

Labeled section


Substitution
Advanced template coding
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Template documentation
Purge
Lua help
Lua project

To do
Resources


Guide to Scribbling








Data structure



Namespaces
Main/Article
Talk namespaces

Archiving


User

User page design


Project/Wikipedia
File

File pages


MediaWiki

Bug reports and feature requests
System message


Template
Help
Category
Portal
Book
Draft
Education Program
TimedText
Module/Lua
Topic/Flow
Special
Media








HTML and CSS



HTML in wikitext
Markup validation
Span tags
Cascading Style Sheets
Catalogue of CSS classes
Useful styles
Classes used in microformats
Ambox classes
Common.js and common.css








Customisation and tools



Preferences
Skins
Customizing watchlists

Hide pages


Gadgets
Beta Features
User scripts

Guide
Techniques


IRC Scripts
User styles
Tools

Navigation shortcuts
Browser tools
Alternative browsing
Editing tools
Optimum tool set


Cleaning up vandalism tools
Citation tools
Wikimedia Labs








Automating editing



Bots

Creating


Twinkle
FurMe
NPWatcher
HotCat
WPCleaner
igloo
AutoWikiBrowser
Navigation popups
STiki
AfC helper script
Huggle








Relevant navigation



Help pages

Administrators


Templates
Referencing

Citation metadata


Accessibility
Bots
User scripts










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Pending_changes&oldid=762753901"					
Categories: Wikipedia information pagesWikipedia flagged revisionsHidden categories: Wikipedia move-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikiversity 



Languages


العربيةБългарскиفارسیHrvatskiPolskiPortuguêsSuomiTiếng Việt中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 30 January 2017, at 15:24.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.116","walltime":"0.168","ppvisitednodes":{"value":547,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":60230,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":190,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":7,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":1,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  102.038      1 -total"," 36.36%   37.098      1 Template:Infopage"," 31.29%   31.930      3 Template:Ombox"," 18.80%   19.179      1 Template:Pp-move-indef"," 11.72%   11.962      1 Template:Wikipedia_technical_help"," 10.88%   11.102      2 Template:Redirect","  9.73%    9.932      1 Template:Navbox","  8.77%    8.950      1 Template:Protection_table","  8.45%    8.625      2 Template:Shortcut","  4.77%    4.865      1 Template:For"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.034","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":1724103,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1275","timestamp":"20170204143157","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":48,"wgHostname":"mw1269"});});
