 







Wikipedia:Sock puppetry

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:Sockpuppetry)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

Please see Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations for how to request investigation of possible sockpuppetry, including requests for CheckUser intervention. You may also be looking for Wikipedia:WikiProject Sociology.
For the type of puppet, see Sock puppet. For multiple deceptive online accounts in general, see Sockpuppet (Internet).



This page documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.


Shortcuts:

WP:SOCK
WP:PUPPET
WP:SOCKING








This page in a nutshell: The general rule is one editor, one account. Do not use multiple accounts to mislead, deceive, vandalize or disrupt; to create the illusion of greater support for a position; to stir up controversy; or to circumvent a block, ban, or sanction. Do not ask your friends to create accounts to support you. Do not revive old unused accounts and use them as different users, or use another person's account. Do not log out just to vandalize as an IP address editor.






The origin of the term "sock puppet" is a type of toy puppet.




Conduct policies




Block evasion
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
Non-discrimination policy
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry
Username policy
Vandalism







v
t
e





The use of multiple Wikipedia user accounts for an improper purpose is called sock puppetry (or simply socking). Improper purposes include attempts to deceive or mislead other editors, disrupt discussions, distort consensus, avoid sanctions, evade blocks, or otherwise violate community standards and policies.
Wikipedia editors are generally expected to edit using only one (preferably registered) account. Using a single account maintains editing continuity, improves accountability, and increases community trust, which helps to build long-term stability for the encyclopedia. While there are some valid reasons for maintaining multiple accounts on the project, the improper use of multiple accounts is not allowed.
Sock puppetry can take on several different forms:

Creating new accounts to avoid detection
Using another person's account (piggybacking)
Logging out to make problematic edits as an IP address
Reviving old unused accounts (sometimes referred to as sleepers) and presenting them as different users
Persuading friends or acquaintances to create accounts for the purpose of supporting one side of a dispute (usually called meatpuppetry)

The misuse of multiple accounts is considered a serious breach of community trust. It may lead to:

a block of all affected accounts
a ban of the user (the sockmaster or sockpuppeteer) behind the accounts (each of which is a sockpuppet or sock)
on-project exposure of all accounts and IP addresses used across Wikipedia and its sister projects
the (potential) public exposure of any "real-world" activities or personal information deemed relevant to preventing future sock puppetry or certain other abuses.[1]

Editors who want to use more than one account for some valid reason should provide links between them on the respective user pages (see below), with an explanation of the purpose of each account or of the relationship between them. If so desired, the user and user talk pages from one account can be redirected to the other. Editors who use unlinked alternative accounts, or who edit as an IP address editor separate from their account, should carefully avoid any crossover on articles or topics, because even innocuous activities such as copy editing, wikifying, or linking might be considered sock puppetry in some cases and innocuous intentions will not usually serve as an excuse.



Contents


1 Inappropriate uses of alternative accounts
2 Legitimate uses

2.1 Editing while logged out


3 Alternative account notification
4 Meatpuppetry

4.1 Sharing an IP address


5 Handling suspected sock puppets

5.1 Sockpuppet investigations
5.2 CheckUser
5.3 Blocking
5.4 Tagging


6 Proving you are not a sock
7 List of role accounts
8 See also

8.1 Guidelines
8.2 Essays


9 References
10 External links



Inappropriate uses of alternative accounts
Policy shortcut:


WP:ILLEGIT



Editors must not use alternative accounts to mislead, deceive, disrupt, or undermine consensus. This includes, but is not limited to:


Creating an illusion of support: Alternative accounts must not be used to give the impression of more support for a position than actually exists.


Policy shortcut:


WP:STRAWSOCK




Strawman socks: Creating a separate account to argue one side of an issue in a deliberately irrational or offensive fashion, to sway opinion to another side.



Editing project space: Undisclosed alternative accounts are not to be used in discussions internal to the project.[2]
Circumventing policies or sanctions: Policies apply per person, not per account. Policies such as the three-revert rule are for each person's edits. Using a second account to violate policy will cause any penalties to be applied to your main account, and in the case of sanctions, bans, or blocks, evasion typically causes the timer to restart. See also WP:EVASION.
Contributing to the same page or discussion with multiple accounts: Editors may not use more than one account to contribute to the same page or discussion in a way that suggests they are multiple people. Contributing to the same page with clearly linked, legitimate, alternative accounts (e.g. editing the same page with your main and public computer account or editing a page using your main account that your bot account edited) is not forbidden.


Policy shortcut:


WP:SCRUTINY




Avoiding scrutiny: Using alternative accounts that are not fully and openly disclosed to split your editing history means that other editors may not be able to detect patterns in your contributions. While this is permitted in certain circumstances (see legitimate uses), it is a violation of this policy to create alternative accounts to confuse or deceive editors who may have a legitimate interest in reviewing your contributions.



Editing logged out to mislead: Editing under multiple IP addresses may be treated the same as editing under multiple accounts where it is done deceptively or otherwise violates the principles of this policy. Where editors log out by mistake, they may wish to contact an editor with oversight access to ensure there is no misunderstanding.
Misusing a clean start by switching accounts or concealing a clean start in a way that avoids scrutiny is considered a breach of this policy; see Wikipedia:Clean start.


Policy shortcuts:


WP:GHBH
WP:HAND




"Good hand" and "bad hand" accounts: Using one account for constructive contributions and the other one for disruptive editing or vandalism.


Policy shortcut:


WP:ROLE




Role accounts: Because an account represents your edits as an individual, "role accounts", or accounts shared by multiple people, are as a rule forbidden and blocked. Many first time editors may sign up an account with a username that implies it is a role account or is being shared. Such accounts are permitted only if the account information is forever limited to one individual; however, policy recommends that usernames avoid being misleading or disruptive. As such, if you edit for an organization, please see username policy for guidance on choosing a name or a replacement name that can avoid these problems. Role account exceptions can be made for non-editing accounts approved to provide email access, accounts approved by the Wikimedia Foundation (list below), and approved bots with multiple managers. See Username policy – Sharing accounts.



Deceptively seeking positions of community trust. You may not run for positions of trust without disclosing that you have previously edited under another account. Adminship reflects the community's trust in an individual, not an account, so when applying for adminship, it is expected that you will disclose past accounts openly, or to email the arbitration committee if the accounts must be kept private. Administrators who fail to disclose past accounts risk being desysopped, particularly if knowledge of them would have influenced the outcome of the RfA.


Policy shortcut:


WP:ADMINSOCK




Administrators with multiple accounts: Editors may not have more than one administrator account, except for bots with administrator privileges. As well, Foundation staff may operate more than one admin account, though they must make known who they are. If an administrator leaves, comes back under a new name and is nominated for adminship, he or she must give up the admin access of their old account.



Posing as a neutral commentator: Using an alternative account in a discussion about another account operated by the same person.

Legitimate uses
Policy shortcuts:


WP:SOCK#LEGIT
WP:VALIDALT



See also: the categories Wikipedians with alternative accounts, and Alternative Wikipedia accounts.
Alternative accounts have legitimate uses. For example, editors who contribute using their real name may wish to use a pseudonym for contributions with which they do not want their real name to be associated, or long-term users might create a new account to better understand the editing experience from a new user's perspective. These accounts are not considered sockpuppets. If you use a legitimate alternative account, it is your responsibility to ensure that you do not use it in an illegitimate manner according to this policy.
Valid reasons for an alternative account include:

Security: You may register an alternative account for use when accessing Wikipedia through a public computer, connecting to an unsecured network, or other scenarios when there's a risk of your account being compromised. Such accounts should be publicly connected to the main account or use an easily identified name. For example, User:Mickey might use User:Mickey (alt) or User:Mouse, and redirect that account's user and talk pages to their main account.
Privacy: A person editing an article which is highly controversial within his/her family, social or professional circle, and whose Wikipedia identity is known within that circle, or traceable to their real-world identity, may wish to use an alternative account to avoid real-world consequences from their editing or other Wikipedia actions in that area. Although privacy-based alternative accounts are not, by nature, publicly connected to your main account, they should not be used in ways outlined in the inappropriate uses section of this page.

Policy shortcut:


WP:DG




Doppelgänger accounts: A doppelgänger account is an account created with a username similar to your main account to prevent impersonation. Such accounts should not be used for editing. Doppelgänger accounts may be marked with the {{doppelganger}} or {{doppelganger-other}} tag, or can simply redirect to the main account's userpage.
Clean start under a new name: A clean start is when a user stops using an old account in order to start afresh with a new account, usually due to past mistakes or to avoid harassment. A clean start is permitted only if there are no active bans, blocks, or sanctions in place against the old account. Do not use your new account to return to topic areas, disputes, editing patterns, or behaviors previously identified as problematic, and you should be careful not to do anything that looks like an attempt to evade scrutiny. A clean start requires that you no longer use your old account(s), which should note on their user pages that they are inactive—for example, with the {{retired}} tag—to prevent the switch being seen as an attempt to sock puppet.
Username violations: If you are blocked for having an inappropriate username, and that is the sole reason for the block, you are permitted to create a new account with an appropriate username.
Compromised accounts: If you are unable to access your account because you have lost the password or because someone has obtained or guessed your password, you may create a new account with a clean password. In such a case, you should post a note on the user page of each account indicating that they are alternative accounts for the same person. If necessary, you should also ask for an admin to block the compromised account. You may want to consider using a committed identity in advance to help deal with this rare situation should it arise later.
Humor accounts: The community has accepted some obviously humorous alternate accounts, for example User:Bishzilla, User:Bishapod, User:Darwinbish, User:Darwinfish, User:Floquenstein's monster, and sometimes Lady Catherine Rollbacker-de Burgh (the Late).
Technical reasons:

Maintenance: An editor might use an alternative account to carry out maintenance tasks, or to segregate functions so as to maintain a user talk page dedicated to the purpose. The second account should be clearly linked to the main account.
Bots: Bots are programs that edit automatically or semi-automatically. Editors who use bots are encouraged to create separate accounts, and ask that they be marked as bot accounts via Wikipedia:Bots/Requests for approval, so that the automated edits can be filtered out of recent changes. Bots should be clearly linked to their owner's account. See Wikipedia:Bot policy.
Testing and training: Users who use a lot of scripts and other tools may wish to keep a second, "vanilla" account, for testing how things appear to others; or for demonstrating Wikipedia's default appearance when training new users. The second account should be clearly linked to the main account, except where doing so would interfere with testing or training, e.g. creating an account named "user:example" to serve as an example account analogous to the website example.com.


Designated roles: Editors with specific roles, such as Wikipedian in residence or Wikimedia Foundation employees, may have specific accounts for those roles. Note the account still belongs to an individual, not the role itself, and should be named as such. For example, User:ExampleName (WIR for Foo Museum) is an acceptable alternative account, but User:Wikipedian-in-residence for Foo Museum is not, because it is named after the role. It is not required that the names match, e.g. the main account User:JohnDoe could have the role account User:ExampleName (WIR for Foo Museum), but the accounts should be clearly connected. If the editor leaves the role, their role account must no longer be used. If a new editor assumes the role, they must create a new account.
Teaching: Teachers who incorporate Wikipedia into their classes may create an account for the purpose of supervising students. Use of the account should be limited to articles and other pages directly related to students and classwork.

Alternative accounts should always be identified as such on their user pages, except where doing so would defeat the point of the account. Templates such as {{User alternative account}} or one of a selection of user boxes may be used for this purpose.
Editing while logged out
Policy shortcut:


WP:LOGOUT



There is no policy against editing while logged out per se. This happens for many reasons, including not noticing that the login session had expired, changing computers, going to a Wikipedia page directly from a link, and forgetting passwords. Editors who are not logged in must not actively try to deceive other editors, such as by directly saying that they do not have an account or by using the session for the inappropriate uses of alternate accounts listed earlier in this policy. To protect their privacy, editors who have edited while logged out are never required to connect their usernames to their IP addresses on-wiki.
If you have concerns that an IP editor is actually a user with an account who is editing while logged out in a way that is inappropriate, you can give the IP editor notice of this policy (template for notification), and if the behavior continues, you should contact a CheckUser privately and present the evidence to them.
Alternative account notification
Policy shortcuts:


WP:SOCK#NOTIFY
WP:ALTACCN



See also: Wikipedia:Userboxes/Wikipedia/Related accounts
Except when doing so would defeat the purpose of having a legitimate alternative account, editors using alternative accounts should provide links between the accounts. Links should ideally take the form of all three of the following:

Similarities in the username (for example, User:Example might have User:Example public or User:Example bot).[3]
Links on both the main and alternative account user pages, either informally or using the userbox templates made for the purpose. To link an alternative account to a main account, use the main account to tag any secondary accounts with {{User alternate acct | main account}} (using the main account shows it's genuine) or {{Public user}} if the account is being used to maintain security on public computers. The main account may be marked with {{User alternative account name|OtherName|...|OtherName[n]}} or {{User Alt Acct Master}}.
Links in the alternative account signature: if not linking to both the alternative and main account, link to the alternative account, and if necessary provide a note there requesting contact be made via the main account, or simply redirect the user talk page.

Editors who have multiple accounts for privacy reasons should consider notifying a checkuser or members of the arbitration committee if they believe editing will attract scrutiny. Editors who heavily edit controversial material, those who maintain single purpose accounts, as well as editors considering becoming an administrator are among the groups of editors who attract scrutiny even if their editing behavior itself is not problematic or only marginally so. Concerned editors may wish to email the arbitration committee or any individual with checkuser rights. Editors who have abandoned an account and are editing under a new identity are required to comply with the clean start policy.
Meatpuppetry
See also: Wikipedia:Canvassing



Do not recruit your friends, family members, or communities of people who agree with you for the purpose of coming to Wikipedia and supporting your side of a debate. If you feel that a debate is ignoring your voice, remain civil, and seek comments from other Wikipedians or pursue dispute resolution. These are well-tested processes, designed to avoid the problem of exchanging bias in one direction for bias in another.


Policy shortcuts:


WP:MTPPT
WP:MEAT



High-profile disputes on Wikipedia often bring new editors to the site. Some individuals may promote their causes by bringing like-minded editors into the dispute. These editors are sometimes referred to as meatpuppets, following a common Internet usage. While Wikipedia assumes good faith, especially for new users, recruiting new editors to influence decisions on Wikipedia is prohibited. A new user who engages in the same behavior as another user in the same context, and who appears to be editing Wikipedia solely for that purpose, may be subject to the remedies applied to the user whose behavior they are joining. Sanctions have been applied to editors of longer standing who have not, in the opinion of Wikipedia's administrative bodies, consistently exercised independent judgment.
Wikipedia has processes in place to mitigate the disruption caused by an influx of single-purpose editors:

Consensus in many debates and discussions should ideally not be based upon number of votes, but upon policy-related points made by editors.
In votes or vote-like discussions, new users may be disregarded or given significantly less weight, especially if there are many of them expressing the same opinion. Their comments may be tagged with a note pointing out that they have made few or no other edits outside of the discussion.
A 2005 Arbitration Committee decision established that "for the purpose of dispute resolution when there is uncertainty whether a party is one user with sockpuppets or several users with similar editing habits they may be treated as one user with sockpuppets."[4]

The term meatpuppet may be seen by some as derogatory and should be used with care, in keeping with Wikipedia's civility policy. Because of the processes above, it may be counterproductive to directly accuse someone of being a "meatpuppet", and doing so will often only inflame the dispute.
Sharing an IP address
"WP:SHARE" redirects here. For the policy prohibiting the sharing of accounts, see Wikipedia:Username policy § Sharing accounts. For the sharebox script, see User:TheDJ/Sharebox.
Policy shortcuts:


WP:COWORKER
WP:FAMILY
WP:ROOMMATE
WP:SHARE



If two or more registered editors use the same computer or network connection, their accounts may be linked by a CheckUser. Editors in this position are advised to declare such connections on their user pages to avoid accusations of sockpuppetry. There are userboxes available for this; see {{User shared IP address}}.
Closely connected users may be considered a single user for Wikipedia's purposes if they edit with the same objectives. When editing the same articles, participating in the same community discussion, or supporting each other in any sort of dispute, closely related accounts should disclose the connection and observe relevant policies such as edit warring as if they were a single account. If they do not wish to disclose the connection, they should avoid editing in the same areas, particularly on controversial topics.
Handling suspected sock puppets


Sockpuppet investigations




Current cases
Sock puppetry policy




Information pages




Guide to filing cases
Administrator instructions
Signs of sock puppetry




SPI clerk pages




List of clerks
Noticeboard (archive 1, archive 2)
Procedures
Training




SPI archives




Archived cases (historical)
Malformed Cases (whitelist)



 








v
t
e






Shortcut:

WP:HSOCK


Sockpuppet investigations
Wikipedia:Signs of sock puppetry lists some of the signs that an account may be a sock puppet. If you believe someone is using sock puppets or meat puppets, you should create a report at Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations. In reporting suspected sock puppetry, you must obey the rules of WP:OUTING with regard to disclosure of personal or identifying information. Only blocked accounts should be tagged as Category:Suspected Wikipedia sockpuppets and only upon sufficient evidence that would stand up to scrutiny.
CheckUser
Policy shortcut:


WP:SPCU



Further information: Wikipedia:CheckUser
Editors with access to the CheckUser tool may consult the server log to see which IP addresses are linked to which accounts. CheckUser cannot confirm with certainty that two accounts are not connected; it can only show whether there is a technical link at the time of the check. In accordance with the Wikimedia Foundation's Privacy and Checkuser policies, checks are only conducted with good cause, and subject to the exceptions in those policies, results are given so as to avoid or minimize any compromise of personal identifying information. Particularly, "fishing"—the use of CheckUser for a given user account without good cause specific to that user account—is prohibited.
Blocking
Further information: Wikipedia:Blocking policy
If a person is found to be using a sock puppet, the sock puppet account(s) should be blocked indefinitely. The main account may be blocked at the discretion of any uninvolved administrator. IP addresses used for sock puppetry may be blocked, but are subject to certain restrictions for indefinite blocks.
Tagging
Further information: Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations/SPI/Administrators instructions § Blocking and tagging
Proving you are not a sock


Babel user information








This is a confirmed main account and not a sock puppet.
(→ Verify - info)
→ I have met this user, verify!








Users by language


One possibility to prove that your account is not a sock puppet is the Personal acquaintances WikiProject. This project was started in 2008 in the German language Wikipedia and uses a WMF labs tool where users can confirm that they have met a real person operating one specific Wikipedia or Wikimedia account at a meetup in real life. The project and its tool meanwhile have been translated to several other languages and can be accessed with any account using the global single user login. Once you have registered as a participant of Personal acquaintances, you need to be confirmed by three other participants in good standing before you can start confirming other real life persons yourself. For further information go to the project page linked above. You can show other Wikipedians that you are a real person by displaying the userbox {{Template:User Personal acquaintances}} on your userpage or the link to your list of confirmations via the url "https://tools.wmflabs.org/pb/beta/user/name/your username/".
List of role accounts

Non-editing accounts that provide an easy way to contact internal email lists:

User:Arbitration Committee
User:Ban Appeals Subcommittee
User:Bureaucrats
User:Mediation Committee[5]
User:Oversight
User:Wikipedia Information Team


Accounts approved by the Foundation:




Category:Wikipedia contact role accounts



See also

smurf account
Sockpuppet (Internet)
Wikipedia:Sleeper accounts
Wikipedia:Sockpuppet investigations

Guidelines

Wikipedia:Canvassing

Essays

Wikipedia:Anything to declare?
Wikipedia:Cabals
Wikipedia:Consequences of sock puppetry
Wikipedia:Don't be quick to assume that someone is a sockpuppet
Wikipedia:Griefing
Wikipedia:Lurkers
Wikipedia:On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Wikipedia:Signs of sock puppetry
Wikipedia:Single-purpose account
Wikipedia:Tag team
Wikipedia:The duck test

References


^ Wikimedia Foundation privacy policy:

"It is the policy of Wikimedia that personally identifiable data collected in the server logs, or through records in the database via the CheckUser feature, or through other non-publicly-available methods, may be released by Wikimedia volunteers or staff, in any of the following situations:



(See policy for details)"





Information under this policy is not gratuitously released, but may be made public at times in the context of detecting, confirming, preventing, and resolving issues related to actual or possible abuse.
^ See Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Privatemusings#Sockpuppetry.
^ Dissimilar names may cause confusion and create an impression of avoiding transparency; remember that the username appears in page histories even if you change the signature.
^ Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Regarding Ted Kennedy#Sockpuppets
^ Ownership of this account is passed between outgoing and newly-appointed Chairpersons, and the password is changed upon the transferral of ownership, so this is not a "role account".


External links



Wikimedia Commons has media related to Sockpuppeteers.



MeatBall:SockPuppet







v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












v
t
e


Sock puppetry






Guidance



Legitimate uses
Inappropriate uses
Meat puppetry
Canvassing
Username policy
Clean start
Single-purpose account
Sleeper accounts
Outing








Signs



Motivations
List of signs
Duck test
An obvious sock is obvious
Don't be quick to assume that someone is a sockpuppet
Lurkers








Investigations



Triggers
Administrators instructions
Requests for checkuser
CheckUser criteria








Consequences



Block
Ban












v
t
e


Wikipedia accounts and governance






Unregistered (IP) users



Why create an account?
Create an account
Request an account
IPs are human too
IP addresses are not people
IP hopper








Registered users



New account
Logging in

Reset passwords


Username policy

Changing username
Usernames for administrator attention


Unified login or SUL
Alternate account








Account security



Password strength requirements
User account security
Personal security practices
Two-factor authentication

Simple 2FA
2FA for AWB


Committed identity
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Compromised accounts








Blocks, global locks,
bans, sanctions



Blocking policy

FAQ
Admins guide
Tools
Autoblock


Appealing a block

Guide to appealing blocks
UTRS Unblock Ticket Request System


Blocking IP addresses

Range blocks
IPv6
Open proxies


Global locks
Banning policy

ArbCom appeals


Sanctions

Personal sanctions
General sanctions
Discretionary sanctions and Log
Essay


Long-term abuse
Standard offer








Related to accounts



Sock puppetry
Single-purpose account
Sleeper account
Vandalism-only account
Wikibreak

Enforcer


Retiring

Courtesy vanishing


Clean start

Quiet return










User groups
and global user groups



Requests for permissions

Admin instructions
Admin guide


Account creator

PERM


Autopatrolled

PERM


AutoWikiBrowser

PERM


Confirmed

PERM


Extended confirmed

PERM


File mover

PERM


Mass message sender

PERM


New page reviewer

PERM


Page mover

PERM


Pending changes reviewer

PERM


Rollback

PERM


Template editor

PERM


IP-block-exempt

Requests


Courses access

Requests


Bot accounts

Requests


Global rights policy

OTRS Volunteer Response Team










Advanced user groups



Administrators

RfA


Bureaucrats

RfB


Edit filter manager

Requests


CheckUser and Oversight

Requests










Committees and related



Arbitration Committee
Mediation Committee
Bot approvals group
Functionaries
Clerks








Governance



Administration

FAQ


Formal organization
Editorial oversight and control
Quality control
Wikimedia Foundation

Meta-Wiki


Leadership opportunities
WikiProjects
Elections
Policies and guidelines
Unbundling administrators' powers
Petitions
Noticeboards
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Reforms









 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:Sock_puppetry&oldid=764382932"					
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia sock puppetryWikipedia conduct policiesHidden categories: Wikipedia pages semi-protected from banned usersWikipedia move-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


MediaWikiWikibooksWikidataWikiquoteWikisource 



Languages


AfrikaansالعربيةAzərbaycancaবাংলাБългарскиBoarischBosanskiBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiBahasa Indonesiaᐃᓄᒃᑎᑐᑦ/inuktitutÍslenskaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaქართულიҚазақшаLietuviųLumbaartMagyarМакедонскиMalagasyമലയാളംمصرىBahasa MelayuNederlandsNedersaksies日本語Norsk bokmålਪੰਜਾਬੀPicardPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوVènetoTiếng Việt吴语ייִדישYorùbá粵語Zazaki中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 8 February 2017, at 16:54.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.324","walltime":"0.452","ppvisitednodes":{"value":3532,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":130469,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3512,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":29,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  317.150      1 -total"," 26.60%   84.375     13 Template:Policy_shortcut"," 21.84%   69.279     13 Template:Bulleted_list"," 18.72%   59.373      1 Template:Pp-sock"," 13.10%   41.537     20 Template:No_redirect","  9.86%   31.261      1 Template:Policy","  9.50%   30.117      2 Template:Ombox","  6.87%   21.783      2 Template:Sidebar","  5.86%   18.595      3 Template:Navbox","  5.58%   17.683     12 Template:Anchor"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.116","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3733979,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1278","timestamp":"20170208165420","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":77,"wgHostname":"mw1172"});});
