 







Wikipedia:User pages

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
  (Redirected from Wikipedia:User page)

					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"WP:UP" redirects here. For the File Upload Wizard, see WP:FUW.
This page is a guideline for user and user talk pages, and should not be confused with your own user page.
See also user page design guidelines, our user name policy, and more about Wikipedia users.



This page documents an English Wikipedia project content guideline. It is a generally accepted standard that editors should attempt to follow, though it is best treated with common sense, and occasional exceptions may apply. Any substantive edit to this page should reflect consensus. When in doubt, discuss first on the talk page.

Shortcuts:

WP:UP
WP:USER
WP:USERPAGE








This guideline in a nutshell:
User pages are for communication and collaboration. While considerable leeway is allowed in personalizing and managing your user pages, they are community project pages, not a personal website, blog, or social networking medium. They should be used to better participate in the community, and not used to excess for unrelated purposes nor to bring the project into disrepute.






Wikipedia data structure




Namespaces



Subject namespaces
Talk namespaces


0
(Main/Article)
Talk
1


2
User
User talk
3


4
Wikipedia
Wikipedia talk
5


6
File
File talk
7


8
MediaWiki
MediaWiki talk
9


10
Template
Template talk
11


12
Help
Help talk
13


14
Category
Category talk
15


100
Portal
Portal talk
101


108
Book
Book talk
109


118
Draft
Draft talk
119


446
Education Program
Education Program talk
447


710
TimedText
TimedText talk
711


828
Module
Module talk
829


2300
Gadget
Gadget talk
2301


2302
Gadget definition
Gadget definition talk
2303



Virtual namespaces



-1
Special


-2
Media




Wikipedia guidelines




Guidelines list
Policies list




Behavioral guidelines







Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Courtesy vanishing
Disruptive editing
Don't bite the newbies
Don't edit to make a point
Etiquette
Don't game the system
User pages
Other behavioral guidelines
WMF friendly space policy




Discussion guidelines




Talk page guidelines
Signatures







Content guidelines




Citing sources
Identifying reliable sources

medicine


Fringe theories
Notability
Non-free content
Offensive material
Don't copy long texts
Don't create hoaxes
Patent nonsense
External links
Other content guidelines




Editing guidelines







Article size
Be bold
Edit summary
Shortcuts
Understandability
Other editing guidelines




Organization guidelines




Categories, lists, templates
Categorization
Disambiguation
Subpages







Style guidelines




Manual of Style

contents
lists
tables






Deletion guidelines




Deletion process
Speedy keep
Deletion guidelines for administrators




Other guideline categories




Naming conventions
Notability







v
t
e





User pages are administration pages in the User and User talk namespaces, and are useful for organizing and aiding the work users do on Wikipedia, and facilitating interaction and sharing between users. User pages are mainly for interpersonal discussion, notices, testing and drafts (see: Sandboxes), and, if desired, limited autobiographical and personal content.
User pages are available to Wikipedia users personally for purposes compatible with the Wikipedia project and acceptable to the community; Wikipedia is not a blog, webspace provider, or social networking site. Wikipedia policies concerning the content of pages can and generally do apply to user pages, and users must observe these policies. Users believed to be in violation of these policies should first be advised on their talk page using {{subst:uw-userpage}} when immediate action is not otherwise necessary.



Contents


1 Terminology and page locations
2 User talk notification
3 Options available from user pages
4 What may I have in my user pages?

4.1 Userspace and mainspace
4.2 Personal and privacy-breaching material


5 Userboxes
6 What may I not have in my user pages?

6.1 Excessive unrelated content
6.2 Advocacy or support of grossly improper behaviors with no project benefit
6.3 Categories, templates that add categories, and redirects
6.4 User pages that look like project pages
6.5 Content copied from mainspace
6.6 User pages that look like articles
6.7 Old unfinished draft articles
6.8 Non-free images
6.9 Images that would bring the project into disrepute
6.10 Copyright violations
6.11 Simulation and disruption of the MediaWiki interface


7 Ownership and editing of user pages

7.1 Removal of comments, notices, and warnings
7.2 Editing of other editors' user and user talk pages
7.3 Handling inappropriate content

7.3.1 On your user pages
7.3.2 On others' user pages


7.4 User pages and leaving Wikipedia

7.4.1 "Right to vanish"




8 Protection of user pages
9 Deletion of user pages

9.1 Deleting others' user pages
9.2 Deleting your user page or subpages
9.3 Deletion of user talk pages


10 User page search
11 Notes
12 See also

12.1 Templates





Terminology and page locations

Note: "Your" in this context means associated with you, not belonging to you.


User page 
Your user page has a name like this: User:Example. (This link is to yours.) Its normal use is to give basic information, if you wish, about yourself or your Wikimedia-related activities. You don't have to say anything about yourself. If you prefer to put nothing here, then you can redirect it to your user talk page for the convenience of other editors.


User talk page 
Your user talk page (sometimes abbreviated to "your talk page" or "your user talk") has a name like this: User talk:Example. (This link is to yours.) Its normal use is for messages from, and discussion with, other editors. For more information see Help:Using talk pages.



Shortcuts:

WP:UP#SUB
WP:USERSUBPAGE
WP:CREATEUSER#SUB




Play media


Video tutorial on creating a user page sandbox



Subpages 
You can create subpages of your User page and your Talk page. To create a subpage write the following text into any editable text area:


User:Your_Wikipedia_Name/subpage

then copy and paste this text into the Wikipedia search box and press ENTER. This will bring you to a page with the title User:Your_Wikipedia_Name/subpage. Now click the CREATE-button next to the Wikipedia search box and your new subpage will be created for you. Click on EDIT, enter a few test words and save the new page. You will notice that different from your User page a subpage contains a backlink to your User page looking like this:

<User:Your_Wikipedia_Name

Clicking on the backlink will bring you to your User page. But, contrary to what you might expect, no new tab has been created for "subpages", for example, containing a list of all of your subpages; everything on your User page is unchanged. So how do you navigate to your subpage? As a method of last resort, you can always go back to your subpage by adding the title of your subpage to the url of your User page:

if your home page  url is:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Your_Wikipedia_Name
just add the name of your subpage:

              https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Your_Wikipedia_Name/subpage

we used "subpage" as our first subpage name, and therefore the above url will get us to our newly created subpage.

There is, of course, an easier method, but it has to be done manually. Copy and modify the following text and put it on your User page:

[[Special:Prefixindex/User:Your_Wikipedia_Name]]

After saving your User page, clicking on this link will provide you with a list of all pages, containing the string "User:Your_Wikipedia_Name", which in our test case includes the sandbox, the User page and, of course, the newly created subpage.

User pages or user space 
All of these pages are your user pages or user space. While you do not "own" them, by custom you may manage them as you wish, so long as you do so reasonably and within these guidelines.

You also have subpages ending in .js and .css to store any user scripts and skin customizations that you may wish to have when you edit Wikipedia. Only you and administrators can edit such pages, although anyone can view them.

Other useful pages: username policy, user page design center, archiving your talk page, and Wikipedia community information

User talk notification

Shortcuts:

WP:ORANGE
WP:NEWMESSAGE






The message notification as it would appear for registered users


You will be notified when someone else edits your user talk page. Since 30 April 2013, registered users receive a notification through the new Wikipedia:Notifications system (see image right); unregistered users still receive notifications with the old-style Orange Bar. Registered users wishing to add back the functionality of the Orange Bar notification may do so through this script.
For users not editing with an account (unregistered users), the alert below is automatically displayed on all pages until you view your user talk page. If you click "new messages" it will direct you to the bottom of your talk page. If you click "last change" it will show you the last edit done to your talk page. Creating a fake message banner that misleads readers into thinking they have new messages is prohibited.
You have a new message from another user. (last change).
The links Special:MyPage and Special:MyTalk are shortcuts that take any user to their own user and user talk pages. If someone is to visit your (or someone else's) user or user talk pages a proper page link will be needed (e.g., [[User talk:Example]]). In practice, user and user talk pages are mostly visited by clicking on user signatures in discussions, and links shown in page histories and diffs.
Options available from user pages
See also: Help:User contributions, Wikipedia:Emailing users, and Wikipedia:Logs
In addition to the usual information accessible from an article page such as page history, "Discuss this page" and the like, users visiting user and user talk pages can also click "User contributions" (in the sidebar or at the bottom of the page) to see what contributions you have made at Wikipedia over time, and "Logs" to see records of other events related to your editorship, done by yourself and by others. (Note that having your user page deleted does not delete any list of your wider contributions.)
Visitors to your user page can also click "Email this user" if you have opted in your user preferences to be able to send and receive email. Your email address will remain private unless you reveal it yourself, select the option to reveal it (in preferences), or reply using an email system outside Wikipedia.
What may I have in my user pages?

Shortcut:

WP:UPYES


There is no fixed use for user pages, except that usually one's user page has something about oneself, and one's talk page is used for messaging. Provided other users can quickly and easily find the pages they need, users may, within reason, freely organize their user pages as they choose.
Users may include a user page notice on their own user pages, user talk pages, or both. Placing the template {{User page}} at the start of a user page clearly identifies the nature of the page for readers, and also helps if people find the labeled page in copies of Wikipedia elsewhere (more about this below) and want to locate the original.
Contributions can also be given a wider license – for example releasing them into the public domain or multi-licensing them – by putting a notice to this effect on one's user page, or on a subpage linked from it. Note that it is not possible to give them narrower licensing: all edits on Wikipedia, including all userspace edits, are licensed for use under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License and in most cases the GNU Free Documentation License as part of Wikipedia.
User pages may be mirrored by other sites. If there is material you do not want copied, reposted, or reused, do not post it on the site.
Certain kinds of material must not linger indefinitely in user space; see below for details.
Besides communication, other legitimate uses of user space include (but are not limited to):






Significant editing disclosures (voluntary but recommended)

Things other editors may find helpful to understand, such as alternative accounts (if publicly disclosed)

If you are editing for or on behalf of a company, organization, group, product, or person (etc.) which you wish to be open about in order to gain a good working relationship with the editing community.
(Editing must always be neutral and within encyclopedia norms. Editors tend to distrust concealed conflicts of interest and agendas. Openly disclosing such interests gains respect, invites others to help and shows a desire to edit appropriately.)









Notes related to your Wikipedia work and activities

Current or planned articles, topic areas, to-do lists, reminders, articles worked on, accolades and other successes, collaborative works, draft proposals, (constructive) thoughts on Wikipedia articles or policies and how they should be changed, etc.
Expansion and detailed backup for points being made (or which you may make) in discussions elsewhere on the wiki.








Work in progress or material that you may come back to in future (usually on subpages)

Drafts, especially where you want discussion or other users' opinions first, for example because of conflict of interest or major proposed changes
Drafts being written in your own user space because the target page itself is protected, and notes and working material for articles (Some content may not be kept indefinitely).








Useful links, tools, and scripts






User space archives

Old talk page threads, etc. (Some content may not be kept indefinitely in userspace if unused.)








Matters that are long enough, or active enough, to allocate them a page of their own






Personal writings suitable within the Wikipedia community

Non-article Wikipedia material such as reasonable Wikipedia humor, essays and perspectives, personal philosophy, comments on Wikipedia matters
Disclosures of important matters such as absences or self-corrections that you would like other editors to know about, etc.

Statements of congratulations or condolence for major events, especially if related to Wikipedia editorship or major life-events.
(Make sure the user wants these to be publicly mentioned on the wiki, they may wish it to be private.)









Experimentation (usually on subpages)

Trial pages for templates, unfamiliar or specialist markup (including LaTeX), etc., as a kind of personal sandbox.

Pages to test bots and scripts without doing harm.
User pages and user subpages can be transcluded and substituted, so they behave like templates, and can be tested as such.









Limited autobiographical content

For example, languages you know (see Wikipedia:Babel) or fields you have knowledge in.








A small and proportionate amount of suitable unrelated material


A number of users have Wikipedia and sister project content such as (free use) pictures from Wikimedia Commons, favorite Wikipedia articles, or quotations that they like.
Pages used for blatant promotion or as a soapbox or battleground for unrelated matters are usually considered outside this criterion. For example: a five page résumé and advertising for your band will probably be too much, a brief three sentence summary that you work in field X and have a band named Y will be fine.
Editors may not use their userspace to solicit compensation for their Wikipedia contributions.









You are also welcome to include a simple link to your personal home page, although you should not surround it with any promotional language. However, if a link to your home page is the only thing on your userpage, this may be seen as an attempt at self-promotion.
User pages are also used for administrative purposes, to make users aware of blocks, warnings, or other sanctions if they happen, and to notify of matters that may affect articles you have worked on or editorial issues you have been involved with. Others may also edit your user pages, for instance awarding you a barnstar or leaving notes and images for you, or adding comments and questions. Although you have wide leeway to edit your user pages, a few of these matters should not be removed (see below).
Userspace and mainspace
Details about yourself should not normally go in the main encyclopedia namespace (reserved for encyclopedia articles only), and encyclopedia articles should never link to or transclude any userspace pages.
In the rare case that you or something closely connected to you may have an article in the encyclopedia, that is always treated as completely separate from you as an editor. You should very carefully read the guidance on conflict of interest and generally avoid editing about yourself or matters closely related to you in any article.
If you would like to draft a new article, Help:Userspace draft provides a standard template and useful guidance to help you create a draft in your userspace, and the article wizard can walk you through all stages of creating an article with the option to save as a userspace draft too. You can use the template {{userspace draft}} to tag a userspace draft if it is not automatically done for you.
Personal and privacy-breaching material
Some people add personal information such as contact details (email, instant messaging, etc.), a photograph, their real name, their location, information about their areas of expertise and interest, likes and dislikes, etc. Once added this information is unlikely to ever become private again. It could be copied elsewhere or even used to harass you in the future. You are cautioned to think carefully before adding non-public information to your user page because you are unlikely to be able to retract it later, even if you change your mind.
Privacy-breaching non-public material, whether added by yourself or others, may be removed from any page upon request, either by administrators or (unless impractical) by purging from the page history and any logs by oversighters (see requests for oversight).
Userboxes
Userboxes are fun little boxes you can put in your user page to express yourself.
What may I not have in my user pages?

See also the policy section Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons#Non-article space.


Shortcuts:

WP:UP#NOT
WP:UPNOT


Generally, you should avoid substantial content on your user page that is unrelated to Wikipedia. Wikipedia is not a general hosting service, so your user page is not a personal website. Your user page is about you as a Wikipedian, and pages in your user space should be used as part of your efforts to contribute to the project.
In addition, there is broad agreement that you may not include in your user space material that is likely to bring the project into disrepute, or which is likely to give widespread offense (e.g. pro-pedophilia advocacy). Whether serious or trolling, "Wikipedia is not a soapbox" is usually interpreted as applying to user space as well as the encyclopedia itself, and "Wikipedia is not censored" relates to article pages and images; in other namespaces there are restrictions aimed at ensuring relevance, value, and non-disruption to the community. You do have more latitude in user space than elsewhere, but don't be inconsiderate. Extremely offensive material may be removed on sight by any editor.
The Wikipedia community is generally tolerant and offers fairly wide latitude in applying these guidelines to regular participants. Particularly, community-building activities that are not strictly "on topic" may be allowed, especially when initiated by committed Wikipedians with good edit histories. At their best, such activities help us to build the community, and this helps to build the encyclopedia. But at the same time, if user page activity becomes disruptive to the community or gets in the way of the task of building an encyclopedia, it must be modified to prevent disruption.
Excessive unrelated content
Unrelated content includes, but is not limited to:




Writings, information, discussions, and activities not closely related to Wikipedia's goals


Shortcut:

WP:UP#GOALS



A weblog recording your non-Wikipedia activities.
Extensive discussion not related to Wikipedia.
Extensive personal opinions on matters unrelated to Wikipedia, wiki philosophy, collaboration, free content, the Creative Commons, etc.
Extensive writings and material on topics having virtually no chance whatsoever of being directly useful to the project, its community, or an encyclopedia article. (For example in the latter case, because it is pure original research, is in complete disregard of reliable sources, or is clearly unencyclopedic for other clear reasons.)
Communications unrelated to Wikipedia, with people uninvolved with the project or its related work.


Shortcut:

WP:UP#GAMES



Games, roleplaying sessions, secret pages and other things pertaining to "entertainment" rather than "writing an encyclopedia". Such activities are generally frowned upon by the community. Games of no educational value relevant to the project are routinely deleted at MfD. (Compare Category:Wikipedia games and Category:Wikipedia Word Association.)




Promotional and advocacy material and links


Shortcut:

WP:UP#PROMO



Advertising or promotion of an individual, business, organization, group, or viewpoint unrelated to Wikipedia (such as commercial sites or referral links).
Extensive self-promotional material, especially when not directly relevant to Wikipedia.




Very divisive or offensive material not related to encyclopedia editing


Shortcuts:

WP:UP#POLEMIC
WP:POLEMIC



Polemical statements unrelated to Wikipedia, or statements attacking or vilifying groups of editors, persons, or other entities (these are generally considered divisive and removed, and reintroducing them is often considered disruptive).
Material that can be viewed as attacking other editors, including the recording of perceived flaws. The compilation of factual evidence (diffs) in user subpages, for purposes such as preparing for a dispute resolution process, is permitted provided it will be used in a timely manner.
Users should generally not maintain in public view negative information related to others without very good reason. Negative evidence, laundry lists of wrongs, collations of diffs and criticisms related to problems, etc., should be removed, blanked, or kept privately (i.e., not on the wiki) if they will not be imminently used, and the same once no longer needed.




Personal information


Shortcut:

WP:USERBIO



Personal information of other persons without their consent.
Inappropriate or excessive personal information unrelated to Wikipedia.




Wikipedia content not suited to userspace


Shortcut:

WP:UP#NOTSUITED



Images which you are not free to use (usually fair use images; see below).
Categories and templates intended for other usage, in particular those for articles and guidelines.






In general, if you have material that you do not wish others to edit, or that is otherwise inappropriate for Wikipedia, it should be placed on a personal web site. Many free and low-cost web hosting, email, and weblog services are widely available, and are a proper place for content unrelated to Wikipedia. For wiki-style community collaboration, you can download the MediaWiki software and install it on your own server if you want full control, or use one of many online wiki farms.
Advocacy or support of grossly improper behaviors with no project benefit
Statements or pages that seem to advocate, encourage, or condone these behaviors:[Note 1] vandalism, copyright violation, edit warring, harassment, privacy breach, defamation, and acts of violence (includes all forms of violence but not mere statements of support for controversial groups or regimes that some may interpret as an encouragement of violence).
These may be removed, redacted or collapsed by any user to avoid the appearance of acceptability for Wikipedia, and existing speedy deletion criteria may apply. To preserve traditional leeway over userspace, other kinds of material should be handled as described below unless otherwise agreed by consensus.
Categories, templates that add categories, and redirects
Further information: WP:Categorisation § Categorizing user pages
Do not put your userpage or subpages, including draft articles, into content categories. Userpages and subpages may be placed in appropriate administrative categories, such as Category:User essays.
Especially note that templates often add categories themselves. You can prevent this while the article is being drafted, by putting tlx| between the {{ and the template name, like this: {{tlx|stub|any parameters}}.
You can also force a portion of text to be ignored by adding <!-- in front of it and --> after it, or by adding a colon before "Category", like this: [[:Category:Bridges]] to force a category link to act like a plain wikilink.
User talk pages should not redirect to anything other than the talk page of another account controlled by the same user.
However, redirects from userspace subpages to mainspace are common and acceptable.

User pages that look like project pages
Userspace is also not a substitute for project space (Wikipedia:...), nor should a userspace page be used as primary documentation for any Wikipedia policy, guideline, practice, or established concept. If your user page related to the project becomes widely used or linked in project space, or has functional use similar to a project page, consider moving it into project space or merging it with other similar pages already existing there.
Content copied from mainspace

Shortcut:

WP:UP#COPIES


Old copies of mainspace articles should be deleted. Mainspace material may be copied to userspace for short-term, active drafting or experimental purposes (the template {{userspace draft}} can be added to the top of the page to identify these). Note the requirements of Wikipedia:Copying within Wikipedia. Satisfactory edits should be promptly incorporated into the mainspace article and the userspace copy deleted (use {{db-u1}}), as content forking represents an attribution hazard.
User pages that look like articles

Shortcut:

WP:FAKEARTICLE


"WP:FAKEARTICLE" redirects here. For deliberately deceiving articles, see Wikipedia:Do not create hoaxes.
Userspace is not a free web host and should not be used to indefinitely host pages that look like articles, old revisions, or deleted content, or your preferred version of disputed content.
When a userspace page reaches a point where it can be included as an article consider moving it into mainspace or using its content appropriately in other relevant articles. {{Userpage blanked}} may be added to such pages that have not been edited for a considerable amount of time.
Actual fake articles should be deleted as incompatible with the purpose of the project. Pages that egregiously present false information may be tagged with {{db-hoax}}. Blatant promotional may qualify for {{db-g11}} tagging. Clearly inappropriate content created by non-genuine contributors should be tagged with {{db-u5}}. Pages that preserve material previously deleted, without an active attempt to address the reasons for deletion, if left live, may be deleted by tagging with {{db-g4}}. Less blatant cases are routinely deleted at WP:MfD.
Old unfinished draft articles

Shortcuts:

WP:STALE
WP:STALEDRAFT


Unfinished draft articles may be moved to draft namespace or listed at Wikipedia:WikiProject Abandoned Drafts for adoption by other editors if the original author no longer wants them or appears to have stopped editing.[Note 2]
Old drafting pages in the userspace of long inactive users:

If suitable for mainspace, move to mainspace;
consider replacing the content with {{Inactive userpage blanked}} or {{Userpage blanked}};
If the material is promotional, or otherwise unsuitable, and the author was never a serious Wikipedia contributor, consider tagging for speedy deletion per WP:CSD#U5.
if of some potential but problematic (e.g., BLP issues, reliability issues, promotional issues), then blank during periods of inactivity;
if an actual draft version of a copy-pasted article, redirect or request a history merge; and finally,
if of no potential and problematic even if blanked, seek deletion.

Note: Redirects from userspace subpages to mainspace are common and acceptable. Wikipedia:Soft redirect is an alternative considered preferable by some.
In a RfC held in March 2016, the community held the view that drafts have no expiration date and thus, cannot and should not be deleted on the grounds of their age alone. In another RfC held in April 2016, the community made the following decisions:

GNG does not apply to drafts.
For userspace drafts where notability is unlikely to be achieved, consensus is that they should not be kept indefinitely. However, the community did not arrive at a specified time duration.
Drafts can be moved across namespaces or submitted for AfC without the author's explicit permission if it's fit to be an article considering the user is "reasonably" inactive. Again, "reasonably" was not defined by the community.
Userspace drafts which do not meet article content standards should not be moved to mainspace in order to seek deletion.
Any editor who intends to improve old userspace drafts can move them provided the user is "reasonably" inactive.
In case a userspace draft was moved to mainspace but is not fit to be in mainspace, it must be returned to the parent location.

Non-free images
Do not include non-free images (copyrighted images lacking a free content license) on your user page or on any subpage thereof (this is official image use policy and the usual wide user page latitude does not apply). Non-free images found on a user page (including user talk pages) will be removed (preferably by replacing it with a link to the image) without warning and, if not used in a Wikipedia article, will be deleted entirely. Note that links to non-free images are acceptable; to do this, use [[:File:name]].
Images that would bring the project into disrepute
There is broad consensus that you should not have any image in your userspace that would bring the project into disrepute and you may be asked to remove such images. Content clearly intended as sexually provocative (images and in some cases text) or to cause distress and shock that appears to have little or no project benefit or using Wikipedia only as a web host or personal pages or for advocacy, may be removed by any user (or deleted), subject to appeal at deletion review.[Note 3] Context should be taken into account. Simple personal disclosures of a non-provocative nature on sexual matters (such as LGBT userboxes and relationship status) are unaffected.
Copyright violations
The same rules for copyright apply on userpages as in article space. Text must either be freely licensed or out of copyright; otherwise only a short quote can be used. If you use text from another source on your userpage, it should still be credited to the author, whether or not it is currently copyrighted.
Simulation and disruption of the MediaWiki interface

Shortcut:

WP:SMI


The Wikipedia community strongly discourages simulating the MediaWiki interface, except on the rare occasion when it is necessary for testing purposes. Included in this prohibition are fake user talk notification banners that mislead readers into thinking they have new messages.[Note 4]
CSS and other formatting codes that disrupt the Wikimedia interface, for example by preventing important links or controls from being easily seen or used, making text on the page hard to read or unreadable (other than by way of commenting out), or replacing the expected interface with a disruptive simulation, may be removed or remedied by any user. Inappropriate internal or external links that unexpectedly direct the reader to unreasonable locations or violate prohibitions on linking may also be removed or remedied by any user. Text, images, and non-disruptive formatting should be left as intact as possible. Users of such code should consider possible disruption to other skins and to diffs and old revisions.
Ownership and editing of user pages

Shortcut:

WP:UP#OWN



This section applies to all pages within your user space.

Traditionally Wikipedia offers wide latitude to users to manage their user space as they see fit. However, pages in user space belong to the wider community. They are not a personal homepage, and do not belong to the user. They are part of Wikipedia, and exist to make collaboration among editors easier.
Bots and other users may edit pages in your user space or leave messages for you, though by convention others will not usually edit your user page itself, other than (rarely) to address significant concerns or place project-related tags. Material that clearly does not somehow further the goals of the project may be removed (see below), as may edits from banned users. Most community policies including No personal attacks and Biographies of living persons will apply to your user space, just as elsewhere. (Purely content policies such as original research and neutral point of view generally do not apply unless the material is moved into mainspace.)
As with all other edits, user space contributions are irrevocably licensed for copying and reuse under the Creative Commons Attribution/Share-Alike License and GNU Free documentation license.
Finally, a few specific notices and tags, if placed, may not be moved to a less visible subpage or deleted without discussion.
Removal of comments, notices, and warnings
"WP:BLANKING" redirects here. For other uses, see WP:Blanking.
"WP:REMOVE" redirects here. For removal of content, see Wikipedia:CANTFIX.

Shortcuts:

WP:UP#CMT
WP:BLANKING
WP:REMOVED


See also: Wikipedia:Don't restore removed comments, § Deleting your user page or subpages, and § Deletion of user talk pages
Policy does not prohibit users, whether registered or unregistered, from removing comments from their own talk pages, although archiving is preferred. If a user removes material from their user page, it is normally taken to mean that the user has read and is aware of its contents. There is no need to keep them on display and usually users should not be forced to do so. It is often best to simply let the matter rest if the issues stop. If they do not, or they recur, then any record of past warnings and discussions can be found in the page history if ever needed, and these diffs are just as good evidence of previous matters if needed.
A number of important matters may not be removed by the user—they are part of the wider community's processes:



Declined unblock requests regarding a currently active block.
Miscellany for deletion tags (while the discussion is in progress).
Speedy deletion tags and requests for uninvolved administrator help (an administrator will quickly determine if these are valid or not; use the link embedded in the notice to object and post a comment, do not just remove the tag).
For IP editors, templates and notes left to indicate other users share the same IP address and/or to whom the IP is registered, although very old content may be removed.



Note: Restoring talk page notices is not a listed exception to the three-revert rule.

Editing of other editors' user and user talk pages

Shortcut:

WP:NOBAN


In general, it is usual to avoid substantially editing another's user and user talk pages other than where it is likely edits are expected and/or will be helpful. If unsure, ask. If a user asks you not to edit their user pages, it is sensible to respect their request (although a user cannot avoid administrator attention or appropriate project notices and communications by merely demanding their talk page not be posted to).
Further information on this area is at Wikipedia:Talk page guidelines, in particular the sections on appropriate conduct, inappropriate conduct, and norms related to editing your own and others' comments. These apply to user talk pages as well as all other discussion pages on Wikipedia.
Handling inappropriate content

Shortcut:

WP:USERTALKBLOG


On your user pages
If the community lets you know that they would rather you delete some content from your user space, you should consider doing so—such content is only permitted with the consent of the community. Alternatively, you could move the content to another site, and link to it.
Although other editors will aim to respect your user space, if corrective action is needed and not undertaken the inappropriate content will eventually be removed, either by editing the page (if only part is inappropriate), by redirecting the page to your main user page (if entirely inappropriate), by community discussion at Miscellany for deletion, or possibly by the application of WP:CSD#U5. Blatant misuse of Wikipedia as a web host. Inappropriate content may be removed from any page in your user space, including your user talk page.
On others' user pages
The best option if there is a concern with a user's page is to draw their attention to the matter via their talk page and let them edit it themselves, if they are agreeable. In some cases a more experienced editor may make non-trivial edits to another user's user space, in which case that editor should leave a note explaining why this was done. This should not be done for trivial reasons. If the user does not agree, or does not effectively remedy the concerns, or the matter is unsure or controversial, then other steps in this section can be taken including uninvolved user opinions or proposing the page for deletion.
If the material must be addressed urgently (for example, unambiguous copyright, attack, defamation, or BLP reasons, etc.), the user appears inactive, the edit appears unlikely to cause problems, and you are quite sure the material is inappropriate, then remove or fix the problem material minimally and leave a note explaining what you have done, why you have done so, and inviting the user to discuss if needed. If the entire page is inappropriate, consider blanking it, or redirecting the subpage to the userpage, or to the most relevant existing mainspace or project space page.
Unsuitable pages, media and images in userspace may also be nominated for deletion or (if appropriate) speedy deleted, but special care should be taken as the user may be expecting leeway and take it personally, and there are a few exceptions. Users with a strong editing record and/or most of their contribution edits outside their user space should be given a little more leeway in this regard than users whose edits consist solely or mostly of user space edits or promotional-style activity. See Deleting user pages below.
User pages and leaving Wikipedia
When a user leaves Wikipedia, their user and user talk pages are usually unaffected and may be edited again at any future time. Some users place the {{retired}} template on their user and talk page to let others know that they are away for an extended period or permanently. A user may blank their user and user talk pages (i.e. overwriting with a blank page) provided non-removable notices (if any) are left intact.
"Right to vanish"
Wikipedia's community traditionally offers a "right to vanish" as a social courtesy, to users who are permanently departing Wikipedia and will sever all ties with the site.
Summary of key points: While some help can be given, it is not possible for your edits to be removed entirely and account deletion would potentially violate copyrights by allowing for inaccurate attribution and authorship claims. Certain important templates may need to be retained on user and user talk pages. Also pages that may be of value to the wider community or whose deletion is opposed by other users might be undeleted during a deletion discussion. Pages remain licensed for reuse even after deletion, and may occasionally be cited or deemed to contain useful content. If a "vanished" user returns, old pages associated with them may be undeleted or unblanked, and could be linked to any new account they create and disclosed at RFA; if this would be a problem, consult ArbCom by email beforehand. Of course the return of users in good standing or reformed "problem users" is welcomed if they happen to change their mind.
Users who have left Wikipedia may be added to Wikipedia:Missing Wikipedians after a certain amount of time, usually one year without an edit.
Protection of user pages

Shortcut:

WP:UP#PROTECT


As with article pages, user pages are occasionally the targets of vandalism, or, more rarely, edit wars. When edit wars or vandalism persist, the affected page should be protected from editing.
Most user page vandalism occurs in retaliation for a contributor's efforts to deal with vandalism. Administrators may protect their own user pages when appropriate, and are permitted to edit protected pages in user space. Sometimes a non-administrator's user page may be targeted for vandalism. Some of this vandalism is prevented through a filter, as unregistered and unconfirmed editors are not permitted to modify other editors' primary user pages.[Note 5]
In cases in which the filter is insufficient in preventing vandalism to a non-administrator's user page, an editor may create a .css suffixed sub-page containing their user page content within their user space, transclude the sub-page into their main user page, then request that an administrator fully protect their user page. (For instance, create User:Example User as {{User:Example User/userpage.css}}.) This method will completely prevent further vandalism by limiting user page editing to yourself, and administrators since ".js" and ".css" pages in userspace can only be edited by them. Note that the addition of inappropriate content to your user page after locking other editors out is considered a serious offense.
Repeatedly inserting copyrighted content or other inappropriate material on your own user pages after being notified not to do so, or misusing user space following a block (e.g., for personal attacks or tendentious editing) are both considered disruptive and may lead to the pages being protected to prevent further disruption. User pages may also routinely be protected in the event of a ban.
Vandalism of talk pages is less common. Usually such vandalism should merely be reverted. Blocks should be used for repeated vandalism of talk pages, where policy permits. In rare cases, protection may be used but is considered a last resort given the importance of talk page discussions to the project.
Deletion of user pages

Shortcut:

WP:UP#DELETE



If you wish to delete your own page, tag the top of the page with {{db-u1}}, and an administrator will delete it for you. However, note that user talk pages are normally not deleted.

Deleting others' user pages
In general other users' user pages are managed by that user. Except for blatant or serious matters, it is preferable to try contacting the user before deletion (see above). However, unambiguous copyright violations, attack pages, promotional text, and privacy or BLP violations can be speedy deleted using a suitable template, such as {{db-attack}}, {{db-copyvio}} or {{db-spamuser}}, other pages likely to require deletion (or where remedial action is not taken) may be submitted to deletion discussion.
Take special care to speak appropriately and explain the concern; many users will take it as a personal affront or attack if an unknown user announces they are going to delete a userspace image or page and an uncivil or heavy duty approach can discourage new users who are unaware of expectations and might enjoy contributing. Remember that a limited amount of personal information (perhaps a short biography) and a freely licensed tasteful personal photograph or two are usually allowed if the page reasonably complies with other requirements.
Use of a user page as a personal web page unconnected with Wikipedia's mission may be a speedy deletion criterion, as is clear advertising and promotional use. A user's contributions that consist solely of a lone edit to their user page should not normally be speedy deleted unless it consists solely of spam or other speedy deletable material. Test edits and the re-creation of deleted material (within limits) are permitted in user space.
Deleting your user page or subpages
You can freely blank any pages in your user space yourself (other than the few items that must not be removed) and request the deletion of your user page or subpages, by adding {{db-user}} to the top of the page. Alternatively, you might consider simply making the page redirect to your user page. This is normally sufficient for most people's needs. Subpages tagged for deletion will be deleted if there is no overriding reason the page must be kept.
Blanking of user subpages is not interpreted as a deletion request, see criteria for speedy deletion G7. If you want it deleted completely then use {{db-user}}.
Your talk page, pages which were moved into your user space from somewhere else, and user talk archives created by page move, may not be deleted in this way. These must be listed at Articles for deletion if they originated as articles, or Miscellany for deletion for anything else. To move them back where they came from, ask at Wikipedia:Requested moves.
Deletion of user talk pages

See also: Help:Archiving a talk page and Wikipedia:Blanking


Shortcuts:

WP:UP#DELTALK
WP:DELTALK


User talk pages and user talk archives created by page move are generally not deleted; they are usually needed for reference by other users. Individual revisions, log entries, and other user space material may be deleted or redacted for privacy reasons, or because of harassment, threats, gross offensiveness and other serious violations. Exceptions to this can be and are made on occasion for good reason. In addition, nonpublic personal information and potentially libelous information posted to your talk page may be removed as described above.
Further information: Wikipedia:Oversight, Wikipedia:Criteria for redaction, and Wikipedia:Speedy deletion
User page search
You can use the Special:Search box below to locate User pages. See Help:Searching for more information.



  



Notes


^ Treatment such as excusing, trivializing, or normalizing these issues as tolerable or of little importance (for example, by explaining support of vandalism as being 'humor' or edit warring as being valid for resolving content issues) will generally be seen as having the same effect as condoning the behavior, and may also be removed.
^ The rule of thumb is to wait at least one year after both the editor who created the page and the editor whose space it is in (should they not be the same) have stopped editing.
^ The community has taken many nude and sexual galleries to MFD. As a guide:

Those created by known and respected long-standing contributors, whose aim is clearly more to showcase our work and WP:NOT#CENSORED and that are not designed for self-amusement or for sexual provocation may be kept but even so have at times been MFD'ed multiple times or closed as "no consensus".
Those which use Wikipedia as personal webspace, are excessively focused upon sexual material, aim at "pushing the edge" on freedom to use userspace, or make a point, rather than project benefit, especially by editors with a lesser record of positive contribution and cases where non-free imagery is a problem (1), tend to be deleted (2, 3).


^ In an RfC that concluded in February 2012, the community banned misleading user talk notification banners; see Wikipedia talk:User pages/Archive 10#Simulating the MediaWiki interface (joke banners redux). The RfC proposal covered only banners that in both wording and color closely resemble the one listed at #User talk notification. Joke banners that do not mislead editors into believing they have new messages were not included in the proposal. Note that as of 2013, the notification system has replaced the user talk notification banners for registered users. It is still used for anonymous IP users and for registered users who have manually enabled it.
^ Please refer to Wikipedia:Requests for comment/Protect user pages by default and its talk page for community discussion related to a preventative measure for user pages.


See also

Category:Wikipedians
Wikipedia:How to use your user space
Wikipedia:On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Wikipedia:User page design center
Wikipedia:Userfication
Wikipedia:Requests for arbitration/Tobias Conradi § Userspace - affirms much of the stated guideline, although consensus has added subsequent details or tightened since then.
Wikipedia:Template messages/User talk namespace - templates that can be used for informational or warning purposes on others' talk pages.

Templates

For user pages:

{{User info}}
{{User page}}
{{Userpage blue border}}
{{Userpage Blue}}
{{User page rounded}}
{{Userpageblue%26round}}, i.e., Userpageblue&round
{{User page mini}}
{{Userpage (no table)}}
{{Userpage otheruse}} for a cross-reference to an article
{{Userpage bar}} for not mentioning a mirror


For user talk pages:

{{User info talk}}
{{Usertalkpage}}
{{Usertalkpage blue border}}
{{Usertalkpage2}}
{{Usertalk bar}} for not mentioning a mirror


For drafts in the user namespace:

{{Userspace draft}}




Wikipedia:User pages/RfC for stale drafts policy restructuring







v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












v
t
e


Wikipedia technical help







Get personal technical help at the Teahouse, Help desk, Village pump (technical), talk pages or IRC.






General technical
help



Multilingual support
Special Characters

Entering


Browser notes

Troubleshooting
Bypass cache


Mobile access
Printing
Keyboard shortcuts
Editing

Edit toolbar
CharInsert
Edit conflict
Reverting


VisualEditor

User guide


User access levels
Software notices

Editnotice


IRC

Tutorial


Create a page
Page history
Page information
Page name

Introduction










Special page related



Special page help
Searching

Advanced search
Linksearch


Logging in

Reset passwords


Notifications/Echo

FAQ


Moving a page

Fixing cut-and-paste moves


Watching pages
User contributions
Emailing users
Random pages
Logs
What links here
Related changes
Recent changes
Pending changes
Page Curation
Page import
Edit filter
Tags








Wiki markup



Wiki markup main page

Cheatsheet


Colours use
Columns
Line-break handling
Lists
Magic words

For beginners
Conditional expressions
Switch parser function
Time function


Redirects
Sections and TOCs
Tables

Introduction
Basics
Conditional tables
Sorting
Collapsing
Advanced table formatting










Links and diffs



URLs
Links
Permanent link
Interwikimedia links
Interlanguage links
Link color
Pipe trick
Colon trick
Magic links
Diffs

Simplest diff guide
Simple diff and link guide
Complete diff and link guide










Media files: images,
videos and sounds



Media help
Options to hide an image
Uploading images

Introduction


Files

Creation and usage
Moving files to Commons


Visual file markup
Images

Preparing images for upload
Picture tutorial
Extended image syntax


Gallery tag
Graphics tutorials

Basic bitmap image editing
How to improve image quality


Graphics Lab resources
Sound file markup
SVG help








Other graphics



Family trees
Graphs and charts

How to create
To scale charts
Barcharts


Math formula

Math symbols
Rendering math
LaTeX symbols


Musical scores

Musical symbols


Timeline

EasyTimeline syntax


WikiHiero syntax








Templates
and Lua modules



Templates
Template messages
Citation templates
Transclusion

Labeled section


Substitution
Advanced template coding
Template limits
Template sandbox and test cases
Template documentation
Purge
Lua help
Lua project

To do
Resources


Guide to Scribbling








Data structure



Namespaces
Main/Article
Talk namespaces

Archiving


User

User page design


Project/Wikipedia
File

File pages


MediaWiki

Bug reports and feature requests
System message


Template
Help
Category
Portal
Book
Draft
Education Program
TimedText
Module/Lua
Topic/Flow
Special
Media








HTML and CSS



HTML in wikitext
Markup validation
Span tags
Cascading Style Sheets
Catalogue of CSS classes
Useful styles
Classes used in microformats
Ambox classes
Common.js and common.css








Customisation and tools



Preferences
Skins
Customizing watchlists

Hide pages


Gadgets
Beta Features
User scripts

Guide
Techniques


IRC Scripts
User styles
Tools

Navigation shortcuts
Browser tools
Alternative browsing
Editing tools
Optimum tool set


Cleaning up vandalism tools
Citation tools
Wikimedia Labs








Automating editing



Bots

Creating


Twinkle
FurMe
NPWatcher
HotCat
WPCleaner
igloo
AutoWikiBrowser
Navigation popups
STiki
AfC helper script
Huggle








Relevant navigation



Help pages

Administrators


Templates
Referencing

Citation metadata


Accessibility
Bots
User scripts










See also: Category:Wikipedia information pages and Category:Wikipedia how-to








 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:User_pages&oldid=765175183"					
Categories: Wikipedia project content guidelinesWikipedia user spaceHidden categories: Wikipedia semi-protected project pagesWikipedia move-protected project pages 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
View source
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Wikimedia CommonsMediaWikiMeta-WikiWikibooksWikiquoteWikiversityWikivoyage 



Languages


Afrikaansالعربيةঅসমীয়াAzərbaycancaتۆرکجهবাংলাBasa BanyumasanБашҡортсаБеларуская (тарашкевіца)‎भोजपुरीБългарскиBrezhonegCatalàČeštinaDanskDeutschEestiΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoEuskaraفارسیFrançaisGalegoગુજરાતી한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHornjoserbsceHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaItalianoעבריתBasa JawaҚазақшаLadinoLatinaLatviešuLietuviųLumbaartMagyarമലയാളംBahasa MelayuBaso Minangkabauမြန်မာဘာသာNederlandsनेपाली日本語НохчийнNorsk bokmålOccitanଓଡ଼ିଆភាសាខ្មែរPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСаха тылаSámegiellaSarduShqipSicilianuසිංහලSimple EnglishسنڌيSlovenčinaSlovenščinaSoomaaligaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiBasa SundaSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 13 February 2017, at 00:06.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.288","walltime":"0.414","ppvisitednodes":{"value":2227,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":144401,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":6845,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":4,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  262.954      1 -total"," 21.89%   57.572      1 Template:Pp-vandalism"," 12.56%   33.025     21 Template:Shortcut","  9.93%   26.104      1 Template:Subcat_guideline","  9.23%   24.264      1 Template:Ombox","  9.08%   23.863      1 Template:Pp-move-vandalism","  9.01%   23.685     26 Template:Anchor","  7.68%   20.199      3 Template:Sidebar","  7.46%   19.607      2 Template:Navbox","  6.88%   18.090      1 Template:Guideline_list"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.104","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":3401308,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1286","timestamp":"20170213000642","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":89,"wgHostname":"mw1250"});});
