 






Wikipedia:No personal attacks

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


					Jump to:					navigation, 					search

"WP:PA" redirects here. You may be looking for WikiProject Pennsylvania, WikiProject Protected areas, Wikipedia:Personal acquaintances or Wikipedia:Passive Aggressive.



This page documents an English Wikipedia policy, a widely accepted standard that all editors should normally follow. Changes made to it should reflect consensus.


Shortcuts:

WP:PA
WP:NPA
WP:PERSONAL







Policies and guidelines


Principles




Five pillars
Ignore all rules
Core content policies




Content policies




Article titles
Biographies of living persons
Image use
Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability
What Wikipedia is not (Not a dictionary)




Conduct policies




Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Non-discrimination policy
Ownership of content
Username policy
Vandalism




Other policy categories




Deletion
Enforcement
Friendly space policy
Legal
Procedural




Directories




List of policies
List of guidelines
Manual of Style contents







v
t
e







Conduct policies




Block evasion
Civility
Clean start
Consensus
Dispute resolution
Edit warring
Editing policy
Harassment
Non-discrimination policy
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry
Username policy
Vandalism







v
t
e






Do not make personal attacks anywhere in Wikipedia. Comment on content, not on the contributor. Personal attacks harm the Wikipedia community and the collegial atmosphere needed to create a good encyclopedia. Derogatory comments about other editors may be removed by any editor. Repeated or egregious personal attacks may lead to sanctions including blocks.



Contents


1 What is considered to be a personal attack?
2 Why personal attacks are harmful
3 Avoiding personal attacks
4 Responding to personal attacks

4.1 First offenses and isolated incidents
4.2 Recurring attacks
4.3 Removal of personal attacks
4.4 Off-wiki attacks
4.5 External links


5 Consequences of personal attacks
6 See also

6.1 Wikipedia policies
6.2 Wikipedia essays
6.3 Related articles





What is considered to be a personal attack?[edit]

Shortcuts:

WP:NPA#WHATIS
WP:WIAPA


There is no rule that is objective and not open to interpretation on what constitutes a personal attack as opposed to constructive discussion, but some types of comments are never acceptable:

Racial, sexist, homophobic, ageist, religious, political, ethnic, national, sexual, or other epithets (such as against people with disabilities) directed against another contributor, or against a group of contributors. Disagreement over what constitutes a religion, race, sexual orientation, or ethnicity is not a legitimate excuse.
Using someone's affiliations as an ad hominem means of dismissing or discrediting their views—regardless of whether said affiliations are mainstream. An example could be "you're a train spotter so what would you know about fashion?" Note that it is not a personal attack to question an editor at their talk page about their possible conflict of interest on a specific article or topic. (Speculating on the real-life identity of another editor may constitute outing, see that policy for more detail.)
Linking to external attacks, harassment, or other material, for the purpose of attacking another editor.
Comparing editors to Nazis, dictators, or other infamous persons. (See also Godwin's law.)
Accusations about personal behavior that lack evidence. Serious accusations require serious evidence. Evidence often takes the form of diffs and links presented on wiki.
Threats, including, but not limited to:

Threats of legal action
Threats of violence or other off-wiki action (particularly death threats)
Threats of vandalism
Threats or actions which deliberately expose other Wikipedia editors to political, religious or other persecution by government, their employer or any others. Violations of this sort may result in a block for an extended period of time, which may be applied immediately by any administrator upon discovery. Admins applying such sanctions should confidentially notify the members of the Arbitration Committee of what they have done and why.
Threats to out (give out personal details about) an editor.



These examples are not exhaustive. Insulting or disparaging an editor is a personal attack regardless of the manner in which it is done. When in doubt, comment on the article's content without referring to its contributor at all.
Why personal attacks are harmful[edit]
Personal attacks are disruptive. On article talk pages they tend to move the discussion away from the article and towards individuals. Such attacks tend to draw battle lines and make it more difficult for editors to work together.
Contributors often wish to have their viewpoints included in articles. Through reasoned debate, contributors can synthesize these views into a single article, and this creates a better, more neutral article for everyone. Every person who edits an article is part of the same larger community—we are all Wikipedians.
The prohibition against personal attacks applies equally to all Wikipedians. It is as unacceptable to attack a user with a history of foolish or boorish behavior, or one who has been blocked, banned, or otherwise sanctioned, as it is to attack any other user. Wikipedia encourages a civil community: people make mistakes, but they are encouraged to learn from them and change their ways. Personal attacks are contrary to this spirit and damaging to the work of building an encyclopedia.
Avoiding personal attacks[edit]
Policy shortcut:


WP:AVOIDYOU



"WP:AVOIDYOU" redirects here. For the guideline on avoiding second-person pronouns in articles, see MOS:YOU.
As a matter of polite and effective discourse, arguments should not be personalized. That is, they should be directed at content and actions rather than people.
When there are disagreements about content, referring to other editors is not always a personal attack. A posting that says "Your statement about X is wrong because of information at Y", or "The paragraph you inserted into the article looks like original research", is not a personal attack. However, "The statement..." or "The paragraph inserted..." is less likely to be misinterpreted as a personal attack because it avoids referring to the other editor in the second person. "The paragraph inserted here [DIFF] into the article looks like original research" is especially advantageous because the DIFF cuts down confusion. Similarly, discussion of a user's conduct or history is not in itself a personal attack when done in the appropriate forum for such discussion (for example, the other editor's talk page, or WP:Administrators' noticeboard/Incidents).
Editors should be civil and adhere to good wiki etiquette when describing disagreements. The appropriate response to an inflammatory statement is to address the issues of content rather than to accuse the other person of violating this policy. Accusing someone of making personal attacks without providing a justification for your accusation is also considered a form of personal attack. (See also: Incivility.)
Responding to personal attacks[edit]
First offenses and isolated incidents[edit]
Often the best way to respond to an isolated personal attack is to simply ignore it. Sometimes personal attacks are not meant as attacks at all, and during heated and stressful debates editors tend to overreact. Additionally, because Wikipedia discussions are in a text-only medium, nuances and emotions are often conveyed poorly which can easily lead to misunderstanding. While personal attacks are not excused because of these factors, editors are encouraged to disregard angry and ill-mannered postings of others when it is reasonable to do so, and to continue to focus their efforts on improving and developing the encyclopedia.
If you feel that a response is necessary and desirable, you can leave a polite message on the other user's talk page. Avoid responding on a talk page of an article, as this tends to escalate matters. Likewise, it is important to avoid becoming hostile and confrontational yourself, even in the face of abuse. Although templates have been used at times for this purpose, a customized message relating to the specific situation is often better received. When possible, try to find compromise or common ground regarding the underlying issues of content, rather than argue about behavior.
Attacks that are particularly offensive or disruptive (such as physical threats, legal threats, or blatantly racist or sexist insults) should not be ignored. Extraordinary situations that require immediate intervention are rare, but may be reported on the administrators' noticeboard.
Discussion of behavior in an appropriate forum (e.g. user's talk page or Wikipedia noticeboard) does not in itself constitute a personal attack.
Recurring attacks[edit]
Recurring, non-disruptive personal attacks that do not stop after reasoned requests to cease can be resolved through dispute resolution. In most circumstances, problems with personal attacks can be resolved if editors work together and focus on content, and immediate administrator action is not required.
Removal of personal attacks[edit]
Policy shortcut:


WP:RPA



See also: Wikipedia:Civility § Removing uncivil comments
Derogatory comments about other editors may be removed by any editor. However, there is no official policy regarding when or whether most personal attacks should be removed, although it has been a topic of substantial debate. Removing unquestionable personal attacks from your own user talk page is rarely a matter of concern. On other talk pages, especially where such text is directed against you, removal should typically be limited to clear-cut cases where it is obvious the text is a true personal attack. The {{RPA}} template can be used for this purpose.
Nevertheless, unusual circumstances do exist. The most serious types of personal attacks, such as efforts to reveal nonpublic personal information about Wikipedia editors (outing), go beyond the level of mere invective, and so can and should be removed for the benefit of the community and the project whether or not they are directed at you. In certain cases involving sensitive information, a request for oversight may also be appropriate.
Off-wiki attacks[edit]
Wikipedia cannot regulate behavior in media not under the control of the Wikimedia Foundation, but personal attacks made elsewhere create doubt about the good faith of an editor's on-wiki actions. Posting personal attacks or defamation off-Wikipedia is harmful to the community and to an editor's relationship with it, especially when such attacks take the form of violating an editor's privacy. Such attacks can be regarded as aggravating factors by administrators and are admissible evidence in the dispute-resolution process, including Arbitration cases.
External links[edit]
For policies related to attacks against living persons in general, whether or not they edit Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:Biographies of living persons.
Linking to off-site harassment, attacks, or privacy violations against persons who edit Wikipedia for the purpose of attacking another person who edits Wikipedia is never acceptable. Attacking, harassing, or violating the privacy of any person who edits Wikipedia through the posting of external links is not permitted. Harassment in this context may include but is not limited to linking to offsite personal attacks, privacy violations, and/or threats of physical violence. This is not to be confused with legitimate critique. Inclusion of links in articles is a matter for sound editorial judgment.
The interpretation of this rule is complex. See Wikipedia:Linking to external harassment for guidance on interpretation.
Consequences of personal attacks[edit]
Although editors are encouraged to ignore or respond politely to isolated personal attacks, that should not imply that they are acceptable. A pattern of hostility reduces the likelihood of the community assuming good faith, and can be considered disruptive editing. Users who insist on a confrontational style marked by personal attacks are likely to become involved in the dispute resolution process, and may face serious consequences through arbitration.
In extreme cases, even isolated personal attacks may lead to a block for disruption. Death threats and issues of similar severity may result in a block without warning. Lesser personal attacks often result in a warning, and a request to refactor. If a pattern of lesser personal attacks continues despite the warning, escalating blocks may follow. However, administrators are cautioned that other resolutions are preferable to blocking for less-severe situations when it is unclear if the conduct severely disrupts the project. Recurring attacks are proportionally more likely to be considered disruptive. Blocking for personal attacks should only be done for prevention, not punishment. A block may be warranted if it seems likely that the user will continue using personal attacks.
See also[edit]

Listen to this page (info/dl)











This audio file was created from a revision of the "No personal attacks" article dated 2009-03-05, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the page. (Audio help)
More spoken pages

Wikipedia policies[edit]

Attack page
Libel
Resolving user conduct disputes
Wikimedia:Non discrimination policy

Wikipedia essays[edit]

Avoid personal remarks
Bullying
Candor
Casting aspersions
Competence is required
Do not insult the vandals
On privacy, confidentiality and discretion
Staying cool when the editing gets hot

Related articles[edit]

Ad hominem







v
t
e


Wikipedia key policies and guidelines






Overview



Five pillars
Policies and guidelines
List of policies and guidelines

List of policies
List of guidelines










Project-wide principles



Consensus
Dispute resolution
Editing policy
Ignore all rules
What Wikipedia is not
Wikipedia is not a dictionary








Core content policies



Neutral point of view
No original research
Verifiability








Other content policies



Article titles
Autobiography
Biographies of living persons
Image use








Content guidelines



Citing sources
Don't create hoaxes
Do not include copies of primary sources
External links
Fringe theories
Identifying reliable sources
Notability
Patent nonsense








Behavioural policies



Child protection
Civility
Courtesy vanishing
Edit warring
Harassment
No legal threats
No personal attacks
Ownership of content
Sock puppetry








Behavioural guidelines



Assume good faith
Conflict of interest
Disruptive editing
Do not disrupt Wikipedia to illustrate a point
Etiquette
Gaming the system
Please do not bite the newcomers








Editing guidelines



Article size
Be bold
Disambiguation
Hatnotes
Set index articles
Signatures
Subpages
Talk page guidelines
User pages
Vandalism
WikiProjects








Style conventions



Manual of Style

Contents


Accessibility

Understandability


Dates and numbers
Images
Layout
Lead section
Linking
Lists








Classification guidelines



Categories, lists, and navigation templates
Categorization
Template namespace








Deletion policies



Attack page
Criteria for speedy deletion
Deletion policy
Oversight
Proposed deletion
Proposed deletion of BLP
Proposed deletion (books)
Revision deletion








Wikimedia Foundation



List of policies
Friendly space policy
Licensing and copyright
Privacy policy
Values











 Book
 Category: Policies / Guidelines












v
t
e


Essays on Wikipedia civility (nutshell)






The basics



How to be civil
Accepting other users
Apologizing
Compromise
Divisiveness
Encouraging newcomers
Enjoy yourself
High-functioning autism and Aspergers editors
Maintaining a friendly space
Relationships with academic editors
Thank you
Truce








Philosophy



Advice for hotheads
An uncivil environment is a poor environment
Be the glue
Civility warnings
Deletion as revenge
Forgive and forget
It's not the end of the world
Most people who disagree with you on content are not vandals
Nobody cares
Opting out of revert notifications
Shadowless Fists of Death!
Staying cool when the editing gets hot
The grey zone
The last word
The rules of polite discourse
There is no common sense
Wikipedia is not about winning
Writing for the opponent








Dos



Assume good faith
Assume no clue
Assume the assumption of good faith
Avoid personal remarks
Avoid the word "vandal"
Call a spade a spade
Candor
Deny recognition
Discussing cruft
Drop the stick and back slowly away from the horse carcass
Encourage full discussions
Get over it
How to lose
Imagine others complexly
Just drop it
Keep it down to earth
Mind your own business








Don'ts



Don't accuse someone of a personal attack for accusing of a personal attack
Don't be a fanatic
Don't be a griefer
Don't be an ostrich
Don't be ashamed
Don't be inconsiderate
Don't be obnoxious
Don't be prejudiced
Don't bite the newcomers
Don't call a spade a spade
Don't call the kettle black
Don't call things cruft
Don't come down like a ton of bricks
Don't create attack pages
Don't cry COI
Don't drink the consensus Kool-Aid
Don't eat the troll's food
Don't engage in cyberbullying
Don't fight fire with fire
Don't give a fuck
Don't insult the vandals
Don't remind others of past misdeeds
Don't spite your face
Don't take the bait
Don't template the regulars
Nothing is "clearly true"
Don't throw your toys out of the pram
No angry mastodons
No, you can't have a pony








Wiki relations



WikiBullying
WikiCrime
WikiHarassment
WikiHate
WikiLawyering
WikiLove
WikiPeace








About essays



The difference between policies, guidelines and essays
Don't cite essays as if they were policy
Quote your own essay
The value of essays









Essay directory







 
						Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wikipedia:No_personal_attacks&oldid=762882668"					
Categories: Wikipedia policiesWikipedia civility essaysWikipedia:Personal attacks 



Navigation menu


Personal tools

Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog in 



Namespaces

Project page
Talk




Variants









Views

Read
Edit
View history



More







Search



 







Navigation


Main pageContentsFeatured contentCurrent eventsRandom articleDonate to WikipediaWikipedia store 



Interaction


HelpAbout WikipediaCommunity portalRecent changesContact page 



Tools


What links hereRelated changesUpload fileSpecial pagesPermanent linkPage informationWikidata item 



Print/export


Create a bookDownload as PDFPrintable version 



In other projects


Meta-WikiWikibooksWikidataWikiquote 



Languages


Alemannischالعربيةঅসমীয়াAzərbaycancaবাংলাБългарскиBrezhonegCebuanoČeštinaDanskDeutschΕλληνικάEspañolEsperantoفارسیFrançaisGalego한국어Հայերենहिन्दीHrvatskiIlokanoBahasa IndonesiaÍslenskaItalianoBasa JawaLatviešuMagyarМакедонскиമലയാളംMaltiमराठीBahasa MelayuNederlands日本語НохчийнNorsk bokmålPolskiPortuguêsRomânăРусскийСаха тылаScotsShqipසිංහලSimple EnglishSlovenčinaSlovenščinaکوردیی ناوەندیСрпски / srpskiSrpskohrvatski / српскохрватскиSuomiSvenskaதமிழ்తెలుగుไทยТоҷикӣTürkçeУкраїнськаاردوTiếng Việtייִדיש粵語中文 
Edit links 





 This page was last modified on 31 January 2017, at 06:16.
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License;
additional terms may apply.  By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.


Privacy policy
About Wikipedia
Disclaimers
Contact Wikipedia
Developers
Cookie statement
Mobile view



 

 



(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgPageParseReport":{"limitreport":{"cputime":"0.136","walltime":"0.192","ppvisitednodes":{"value":1271,"limit":1000000},"ppgeneratednodes":{"value":0,"limit":1500000},"postexpandincludesize":{"value":89552,"limit":2097152},"templateargumentsize":{"value":3479,"limit":2097152},"expansiondepth":{"value":9,"limit":40},"expensivefunctioncount":{"value":3,"limit":500},"entityaccesscount":{"value":0,"limit":400},"timingprofile":["100.00%  120.429      1 -total"," 23.21%   27.953      1 Template:Policy"," 21.48%   25.868      1 Template:Ombox"," 13.46%   16.206      2 Template:Navbox"," 13.32%   16.039      1 Template:Redirect3"," 12.52%   15.072      2 Template:Policy_shortcut"," 11.89%   14.314      1 Template:Wikipedia_policies_and_guidelines"," 11.40%   13.723      1 Template:Hatnote","  9.79%   11.793      2 Template:Helpbox","  8.93%   10.749      2 Template:Bulleted_list"]},"scribunto":{"limitreport-timeusage":{"value":"0.038","limit":"10.000"},"limitreport-memusage":{"value":2401240,"limit":52428800}},"cachereport":{"origin":"mw1243","timestamp":"20170202094728","ttl":2592000,"transientcontent":false}}});});(window.RLQ=window.RLQ||[]).push(function(){mw.config.set({"wgBackendResponseTime":71,"wgHostname":"mw1274"});});
